A/t 


2-  X 


Gov 


VUL.  III. 


PART  1. 


/ 


Suffolk 


/ 


y  6~3  &#_,.//  O 


3- 27"' 


Cf  /  —. 


ial  Families, 


BEING 


£0e  £ounfg  (pifitlaftone  attfc  of$er  (pebtgrece, 


EDITED,  WITH  EXTENSIVE  ADDITIONS. 


•JOSEPH  JAMES  MUSKETT, 


Honorary  Member  of  the  Suffolk  Institute  of  Archaeology,  Corresponding  Member  of  the 

Historic  Genealogical  Society  of  New  England. 


It  is  the  Editor’s  desire  to  make  this  work  an  exhaustive  resume  of  the  Genealogy  of  the 
Shire.  It  will  he  issued,  to  Subscribers  only,  in  Parts  of  forty  pages,  price  os.  each,  and  the 
number  will  be  restricted  to  250  copies.  Communications  to  be  addressed  to  the  Editor, 
11,  Talbot  Road,  South  Tottenham,  London 


PRIVATELY  PRINTED. 


EXETER : ' 

WILLIAM  POLLARD  &  Co.  Ltd.,  PRINTERS  &  LITHOGRAPHERS,  NORTH  STREET. 

1910. 


* 


Rcchr  of  JSurj). 


JLononal  gearings. 

The  Arms  which  accompany  the  pedigree  of  Reeve  of  Bury  in  Harvey’s  Visitation  of 
Suffolk,  1561  ( Ilarl.  MSS.  1103,  fol.  2fb),  are  Argent,  on  a  fess  engrailed  Sable,  between  three 
escallops  Azure,  as  many  eagles  displayed  Or.  A  mullet  for  difference. 

These  Arms  were  granted  by  Thomas  Wriothely,  Garter,  and  Thomas  Benoit,  Clarencieux, 
to  John  Reve  ats  Melford,  Abbot  of  St.  Edmund’s  Bury,  by  patent  under  their  hands  and 
seals,  bearing  date  the  5th  of  Henry  the  Eighth,  1513. 

This  coat  was  confirmed  to  Edward  Reeve  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  the  Abbot’s  nephew, 
by  Robert  Cook,  Clarencieux,  under  his  hand  and  seal  of  office,  in  the  18th  year  of  Queen 
Elizabeth,  1576. 

The  Crest  accompanying  the  Reeve  pedigree  in  Harl.  MS.  1560,  fol.  29  b,  is  a  squirrel 
proper  sejant,  collared  Or,  holding  a  nut  in  its  paws.  In  Harl.  MS.  1177,  fo.  24,  it  is 
apparently  a  crow’s  head  erased  Or,  collared  Sable.  It  has  however  been  variously  described 
as  an  eagle’s  head  and  a  griffin’s  head.  There  is  no  Crest  upon  record  to  Reeve  of  Bury  at 
the  College  of  Arms. 

The  Arms  on  the  monument  to  Roger  Reeve,  who  died  in  1691,  and  Elizabeth  Wilcox, 
his  wife,  in  St.  Sepulchre’s  Church,  Holborn  Viaduct,  London,  are  Reeve,  as  above,  impaling 
Wilcox,  Ermine,  a  chief  chequy  Or  and  Gules. 


Mill  of  JUice  1 ieebe  ai's.  JCtbn*,  1505. 

The  first  day  of  August  1505,  I  Alice,  late  the  wife  of  Roger  Reve,  and  aftir  that  the 
wife  of  Wiffm  Leder,  late  of  Melforde  in  the  dioc  of  Norwich,  make  my  testament  and  last 
will.  I  bequeth  my  soule  vnto  almighty  god,  to  or  blissed  lady  seynt  Mary  virgyn,  and  to  all 
seyntes.  And  my  body  to  be  buried  in  the  pisshe  church  of  Melforde,  whe?  my  husband  lyeth 

buried.  I  will  that  my  husband’s  will,  Roger  Reve,  and  also  John  Feremanny’s  will  to  whom 

[he]  was  executor,  be  fulfilled.  I  bequeth  to  Dan  John  my  son  x]i,  also  my  silu  pece,  and  af? 
his  deceese  it  shall  j'emayn  vnto  John  Whitney.  Vnto  I)an  Symon  my  broder  xls.  Roger  my 
son  shall  haue  to  hym  &  his  heyres  my  Taverne  with  the  chambr  and  soler  ou  the  same,  he 

[to]  pay  unto  Agnes  his  sister  liijs  i;ijd  ;  he  and  his  heyres  to  susteyne  and  repaire  the  Crepelyng 

bitwene  the  solar  and  my  tehte,  late  Robert  Colettes,  tlierto  adioyned.  The  same  Roger  shalhaue 
the  half  of  my  gardeyn,  so  that  he  make  a  sufficient  fense.  And  also  that  he  cause  a.  pcell 
of  the  Teyntor  yarde  fensed  into  the  sayd  gardeyn  to  be  deliued  vnto  said  Agnes  my  daughter. 
My  said  son  shall  haue  my  two  pastures  called  Bulney  Apulton.  I  will  that  my  dough? 

B 


2 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


slialhaue  my  land  arrabull  in  Nether  bulney.  I  bequeth  vnto  Margaret,  my  doughter,  vi1  xiij8  iiijd 
and  a  remnant  of  violet  to  make  hir  a  gowne.  Agnes,  my  dought,  slialhaue  said  tent  late 
Robert  Colettes,  except  those  pcelles  which  I  have  assigned  vnto  Roger  my  son.  Also  vnto 
the  same  Agnes  and  Margarete  hir  suster  all  that  I  haue  in  the  said  Taune  equally.  Vnto 
John  Whitney  xls  it  to  Thomas  Reve  xl8,  whan  they  come  to  their  full  age.  To  Marion  my 
doughter  my  best  gowne,  my  best  Kyrtill,  my  Rede  bedes  and  my  yongest  cowe ;  also  my  blew 
corse  gyrdell  and  my  rede  corse  harneysed  wl  silu.  All  my  stuff  of  houshold  to  my  said 
childern,  Roger,  Marion,  Margaret  and  Agnes,  to  be  equally  devided  by  my  said  son  Dan  John. 
Myn  executor  shalnot  be  compelled  by  any  law'e  to  pay  any  of  my  forsaid  bequests  but  as  they 
may  be  levied  of  my  dettes.  The  residue  not  bequeathed  I  corny tt  vnto  Dan  John  my  son 
that  he  dispose  therof  as  to  hym  shall  seme  to  be  moost  to  the  pleasur  of  god  and  helthe  of 
my  soule,  whom  I  ordeyne  and  make  to  be  myn  executor.  Probatum  xx°  die  Octobris  1505 
jur  Roberti  Whitney  vt  cohiissa  fuit  Dompno  Jobanni  executori. 

P.C.C.  37  Holgrave. 


08ill  of  Bogci*  Jieebe,  1538. 

I  Roger  Reeve  of  Bury  saint  Edmunde,  Clothmaker,  the  xxvii  day  of  August,  1538,  and 
in  the  xxx  yere  of  the  Reigne  of  our  moost  died  soueraigne  King  Henry  the  viijth,  do  make 
and  establishe  this  my  put  _ testament.  I  comende  my  soule  to  almighty  god,  my  only  creator 
and  Redemer,  to  our  lady  saint  Mary,  his  blissed  mother,  and  to  the  Communyon  of  Saintes ; 
my  body  to  be  buried  in  halowed  sepulture.  To  the  Elymozynary  of  the  Monastery  of  Bury 
v8.  And  for  the  helthe  of  my  soule,  and  all  xpen,  I  will  an  honest  preest  shall  singe  for  me 
in  the  Church  of  saint  Mary  by  the  space  of  fyve  yeres,  having  yerely  for  his  stipende  nyne 
markes.  Neuertheles  yf  Sir  Norman,  nowe  pishe  preest  of  the  church,  will  goo  to  Cambridge 
to  study,  then  I  will  that  he  slialhaue  thre  yeres  suioe  therof  at  Cambridg,  and  after  come 
ageyn  to  Bury,  and  singe  in  the  church  of  Saint  Mary  by  the  space  of  the  other  twoo  yeres. 
Fyve  poundes  to  be  delt  to  poure  people  at  home  in  their  house  within  Bury,  at  my  burying 
day,  over  and  besides  the  charges  of  my  funeralles.  I  will  that  ffourty  shillinges  be  spent  at 
viith  day.  I  will  that  fyve  poundes  be  deltt  to  poure  ffolkes  at  my  xxxth  day,  and  other  fyve 
poundes  at  my  yere  day,  and  euery  yere  after,  by  the  space  of  foure  yeres,  for  masse  and 
dirige  x8  in  Saint  Mary  churche.  I  geve  to  Margaret  my  wife  twoo  hundreth  markes.  To 
John  my  sonne  ffourty  poundes.  Also  I  geve  vnto  the  said  John  the  money  which  the  parson 
of  Nowton  must  paye  me  for  the  house  which  I  sett  vpon  Inghm  parsonage,  according  to  the 
coveuiit  made  betwene  me  and  said  parson.  To  Edward  Reve  my  son  twenty  poundes :  all  my 
grene  and  redde  woolle  lying  at  Devye  in  the  horsse  market.  Vnto  Edmunde  Reve  my  sonne 
twenty  poundes ;  foure  poundes  to  apparell  him  and  his  wife ;  [and]  ffour  score  of  my  wethers 
going  in  Westeley  fflock,  either  to  sell  them  or  kepe  them,  as  it  shall  please  my  lorde  Abbott 
of  Burye  to  devise.  Vnto  Joane  my  daughter  twenty  poundes  [and]  thre  poundes  to  bye  hir 
maryinge  apparell.  I  will  that  Margaret  my  wife  haue  all  my  wmode  lying  in  my  yarde.  All 

my  shepe  going  at  the  Est  gate  Bernys  [to]  be  equally  devided  betwene  my  w'ife  and  John 

Reve  my  sonne.  To  John  Reve  my  sonne  the  cuppe  w*  the  cover,  my  Salt  w*  the  couer 

doble  gilts,  and  one  doseyn  of  siluer  spones.  To  Edward  Reve  my  sonne  the  cupp  whiche  I 

haue  in  gage  of  John  Cooke  for  six  poundes  xv8.  All  the  Residue  of  my  plate  and  Jewelles  to 


REEVE  OF  BURY. 


3 


Margaret  my  wife.  Except  my  hoope  of  golde,  which  Thomas  Andrewe  of  Bury  nowe  hath  in 
keping,  which  I  bequeth  to  John  my  son.  Edward  Page  shalhaue  tenne  poundes  of  Edward 
Reve  my  sonne.  [Many  bequests  to  friends  and  servants  follow.]  To  John  Wary,  Surgen,  my 
best  gown,  my  best  Jaket  and  my  best  doblet.  All  the  Residue  of  my  goodes  [to]  my 
Executours,  whom  I  ordeyn  my  brother  the  Abbot  of  Bury,  and  for  his  paynes  I  geve  vnto 
his  Lordship  tenne  poundes  sterling.  Probatum  quarto  die  ffebruarii  1538  juramento  Dompni 
Johis  Abbatis  monaster  de  Bury  executoris. 

P.C.C.  24  Dingley. 


(SHtU  uf  John  l Uzbz  al's*  JHilforth,  1540. 

The  xxvi1'1  daye  of  Marche,  1540,  I  John  Reve,  Clerke,  alias  Milforth,  make  my  last  will. 
I  bequeith  my  soule  vnto  Almvghtie  God  ifc  to  all  the  holye  companye  of  hevyn  ifc  my  bodie 
to  holye  sepulture  in  the  Churche  of  or  blisside  ladie,  Seyncte  Marye,  wtbin  the  towne  of 

Burie  seinct  Edmunde.  And  wheras  by  o’  moste  dreade  ifc  souaigne  lorde,  the  King’s  grace  yfc 

nowe  ys  ifc  his  gracyous  councill  of  his  courte  of  th’  augmentacon  of  the  Revenues  of  his 
crowne,  it  was  ordeyned  y*  Clement  Heigham  of  Chevington,  co.  Sufi'.,  shulde  paie  vnto  me,  as 
Executor  vnto  my  brother  Roger  Reve,  twoo  hundreth  ifc  twentie  pounds,  of  the  whiche  sume 
there  is  nowe  due  vnto  me  covin15,  I  will  the  seide  Clement  shall  pay  [it]  vnto  psonnes  as 
herafter  I  shall  name.  Fyrst,  vnto  euye  on  of  my  sister  Bacon’s  children,  y6  is  to  saye  vnto 

ye  wiff  of  John  Fryer  the  elder,  the  wide  of  John  Aldhilm,  the  wyffe  of  George  Tailour,  the 

wifl'e  of  the  yonger  Fryer,  the  somme  of  tenn  poundes.  And  also  to  the  children  of  my  suster 
Munnyng,  y*  is  to  saye,  Margaret  Wyngfelde,  the  wife  of  Thomas  Wyngfelde  of  Sandwicke, 
Katheryne  the  wife  of  John  Worlyche  ifc  Elizabethe  Munnyng,  to  euye  of  them  tenn  poundes. 
Saide  Clement  Hiegham  shall  paie  yerlie  towardes  the  ffynding  an  honest  preest  to  synge  in  the 
seide  churche,  by  the  space  of  twentie  yers,  for  my  thither  ifc  my  mother’s  soules,  my  brother 
Roger  Reve  soule,  my  soule  &  all  cristen  soules,  five  marckes  yerly,  vnto  sume  the  lxvi1,  xiij8,  iiijd. 
I  will  yf  seide  Clement  do  paie  vnto  John  Wynkfilde,  the  sonne  of  Thomas  Wynkfelde  of 
Sandwiche,  xxh,  and  vnto  John  Fryer,  the  sonne  of  said  John  Fryer  the  elder,  xxu,  and  unto 
the  eldest  sonne  of  the  younger  Fryer,  to  either  of  them  xx!i  marckes ;  also  to  the  eldest 
sonne  of  John  Aldham.  I  give  to  the  doughter  of  Roger  Reve,  my  brother,  whiche  is  maried 
vnto  oon  ....  Laye  of  Burie,  tenne  poundes.  Vnto  my  suster  Munnyng  my  beste  goune 
clothe,  which  ys  yet  onmade  [ifc]  one  half  of  my  best  carpet.  Vnto  Elizabeth  Monnyng,  seid 
suster’s  doughter,  my  gilte  cuppe  wth  the  cover,  the  whiche  is  a  hand  holding  an  acorne,  [also] 
my  best  ryng  with  a  Dyamonte  in  the  seid  ring.  Vnto  Anne  the  wyfe  of  Clement  Heigham, 
my  best  ring  sett  wth  Torkkeys,  the  whiche  of  longe  tyme  I  haue  benne  wonte  to  weare. 
Vnto  my  Ladie  Tyrrell,  twoo  hogshedes  of  Clarrette  Wynne  ik  xxn  gallons  of  wynne  sacke. 
Vnto  Syr  Thomas  Stokes,  clarke,  my  best  stondyng  Cuppe  of  Silver  ik  gilt,  wtb  the  Cover, 
and  my  best  goune  furrid  wtu  boodger.  I  give  unto  Sr  Wilim  Bukkell,  Chappelyn,  my  seconde 
stondyng  cuppe  of  siluer  ik  gilte,  wtb  the  cover,  and  my  goune  ffurrid  wth  connye.  Vnto  John 
Kinge,  chapleyne,  in  moneye  xls,  my  thirde  cuppe  of  siluer  &  gilt  wUl  a  couer,  my  short  goune 
wth  my  two  furride  cottes.  Vnto  Thomas  Heydon,  my  servunte,  my  best  horse.  Vnto  Thomas 
Tirrell,  my  servunte,  my  seconde  horse.  1  give  vnto  Elyzabeth  Heigham,  the  doughter  of 
Clement  Heigham,  on  stondying  cuppe  of  siluer  and  gilte  wth  a  cover.  Vnto  John  Wyngfeld, 

B2 


4 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


sonne  of  Thomas  Wyngfeld  of  Sandwiche,  John  Fryer  sonne  of  John  Fryer,  John  Reve,  Edwarde 
Reve,  ffether  beds,  charabir  hangynges,  gobletts  &c.  Vnto  the  doughter  of  my  brother  Roger 

lleve,  the  whiche  is  marryede  vnto  on  Thomas  Laye,  my  sixte  ffetherbed  and  some  reasonable 

hangyng  to  be  assignyde  vnto  hir.  Vnto  the  wyff  of  Laye  a  bolle  of  syluer  wth  a  kyrtell  of 
worstede.  Edward  Reve  my  nevew  shall  yerly  by  the  terme  of  xxh  yeres,  vpon  euye  ffryaaye 
in  the  tyme  of  the  masse  syngyng  by  the  preeste,  giue  vnto  tree  poore  ffolkes  iij  pence  to 
praye  for  the  soules  aboueseide.  Vnto  the  wyff  of  John  Reve  twoo  pounsid  gobletts  of  syluer 
ifc  pcell  gilte.  Vnto  the  seide  Syr  John  King  yerly  for  twoo  yeres,  for  his  labours  about  the 
lernyng  &  teching  of  John  Wyngfeelde,  John  Fryer  and  the  ladde  of  the  seide  Syr  John,  the 
sume  of  five  marckes.  And  to  euye  of  the  seid  children  for  theire  meate  and  drynke,  for 

the  seide  twoo  yeres  going  to  scoole,  iiij  marckes  yerlye.  Vnto  the  late  pryor  of  Burie, 

and  the  late  Sexton  of  the  seide  monasterye  to  praye  for  my  soule,  to  either  iij  Realls  of  golde. 

To  euye  other  Brother,  sumtyme  monkes  of  the  seid  house  &  pfesside,  one  Ryall,  it  to  the 

other  whiche  wer  not  pfessyde,  to  euye  of  them  on  nobill.  Vnto  Clement  Heigham  my  lyttle 
noote  the  whiche  I  haue  accustimed  to  drinke  of ;  also  my  hangynges  nowe  in  the  greate 

chamber  at  Lytle  Hornyngforth.  My  executors  shall  yerly,  by  the  space  of  xxH  yeres,  cause 

on  dirige  it  masse  of  Requyem  to  be  seid  within  seid  churche  of  or  blisside  Ladie,  vpon  the 
daye  of  buriall  as  the  yere  runnyth,  and  that  by  iij  honest  preestes  wthoute  synging  or 
rynnyng.  Vnto  meistres  Page  and  vnto  the  wyff  of  John  Appotts,  to  either  on  kyrtill  cloth 
of  my  worsted.  Meistres  Page  shall  be  paide  for  hir  ale  whiche  hath  bynn  fatchide  for  me 
the  tyme  of  my  sickenes.  Vnto  Margaret  Wyngffeld  the  oyr  halfe  of  my  best  carpette.  My 

kynsmen  Mr  Willyam  Page.  Vnto  my  ladie  Somersette,  wiff  of  Sir  George  Somersett,  My  lady 
Drury,  my  ladie  Jermyn,  my  ladie  Peyton,  to  euye  on  of  them,  on  hogshed  of  Claret  wyne — 
to  praye  for  my  soule.  Vnto  John  Holt  a  sylu  Bolle  it;  a  cover.  Vnto  Edmunde  Tirrell,  my 

godson,  five  marckes  to  be  delyuered  vnto  hym  incontinent.  All  the  residue  of  my  goodes  vnto 
my  Executours  [whom]  I  constitute  Clement  Heigham  of  Chewengton  &  my  nevewe  Edward  Reve 
of  Burye.  Witnes,  Thomas  Stok,  Sir  William  Bokyll,  Thomas  Heydon,  Thomas  Tyrell,  Henrye 
Edon,  Willyam  Hune  &  William  Page. 

Probatum  xiiij0  die  Aprilis  1540  jurat  Johannis  Adams,  pro  curator  executor  diet  defunct. 

P.C.C.  18  Crumwell. 

John  Reeve  alias  Melford  was  the  thirty-third  and  last  Abbot  of  Bury.  The  Royal 
Commissioners,  as  we  know  from  one  of  their  letters  preserved  in  the  Cottonian  MSS. 
( Thompson’s  Records  of  St.  Edmund,  p.  51),  could  urge  but  little  against  him,  except  concerning 
the  ceremonies  of  his  religion.  He  had  expended,  they  said,  much  money  upon  his  granges, 
was  fond  of  cards  and  dice,  and  built  for  his  pleasure.  As  touching  his  convent  they  could 

make  no  complaint,  although  they  had  examined  diligently  into  the  matter.  In  those  days, 

indeed,  when  there  were  no  books  and  no  newspapers,  surely  something  of  the  nature  of  cards, 
or  other  diversion,  was  needed  to  restore  the  balance  of  minds,  wearied  with  prolonged 
devotions  and  the  monotony  of  the  religious  life. 

But  the  Abbot,  who  had  been  so  grand  a  figure  in  the  history  of  his  county,  struggle 
as  he  might,  was  compelled  to  surrender  his  abbey  into  the  hands  of  the  King,  who  was 
recruiting  his  resources  from  the  plunder  of  the  monasteries.  He  retired,  heart  broken,  to  a 
neighbouring  house,  wrote  his  will,  and  died  a  few  months  later.  He  was  buried  in  the  chancel 
of  St.  Mary’s  Church:  and  Weever  (Funeral  Monuments,  p.  731)  gives  the  Latin  inscription 
upon  the  stone  which  covers  his  remains. 


/Iftemoriam. 


3n 

- 

'^T'HE  following  very  imperfect  and  inadequate  notice 
of  the  late  Mr.  Muskett  is  sent  out  with  this  Part 
of  Suffolk  Manorial  Families,  with  which  he  was  so  in¬ 
timately  concerned  and  to  which  he  devoted  so  much 
time  and  labour.  To  those  who  knew  Mr.  Muskett 
intimately  he  was  a  delightful  personality  and  many  an 
interesting  reminiscence  or  piquant  story  were  told  by 
him  among  his  friends.  His  work  as  a  genealogist  will, 
I  feel  assured,  be  lasting  and  more  fully  valued  in  the 
future  than  during  his  life — he  was  accurate  and 
painstaking,  and  if  indeed  he  realised  no  great  fame  or 
fortune,  at  any  rate  he  could  appreciate  the  lines : — 

“  No  endeavour  is  in  vain. 

It’s  reward  is  in  the  doing : 

And  the  rapture  of  pursuing 
Is  the  prize  the  vanquished  gain.” 

Joseph  James  Muskett  was  born  at  Holt,  in  Norfolk,  on  12th  June,  1835,  being  the 
son  of  Joseph  Muskett  and  Anne,  his  wife,  daughter  of  Edward  Andrews.  His  father 
was  born  in  1790,  and  was  the  eldest  son  of  William  Muskett,  born  at  Tharston,  in 
Norfolk,  1760,  and  Mary  Taylor.  In  1853  he  matriculated  at  the  University  of  London 
and  studied  medicine  at  “  Barts  ”  where  James  Paget  was  then  an  assistant  surgeon,  and 
in  1857  he  was  admitted  a  member  of  the  College  of  Surgeons.  From  1859  to  1878  he 
was  District  Surgeon  of  Murraysburg,  South  Africa,  and  during  that  time  he  practically 
formed  the  Public  Library  there.  In  1879  he  returned  to  England  and  began  his 
collections  for  a  genealogical  history  of  Suffolk,  the  whole  of  which  are  now  in  the 
British  Museum.  Mr.  Muskett  married  in  1863  Catherine  Charlotte  Dalgairns,  daughter 
of  Mr.  Chas.  A.  Wentworth,  of  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  with  whom  he  spent  a  happy 
married  life  of  over  thirty  years ;  after  her  death  he  still  continued  his  genealogical 
work,  but  he  was  never  the  same  man  again,  and  although  he  worked  on  bravely  in 
the  face  of  domestic  loss,  financial  troubles  and  gradual  decline  in  health,  he  did  not 
become  seriously  unwell  until  about  1910,  on  the  last  day  but  one  of  which  year  he 
died  at  11,  Talbot  Road,  South  Tottenham,  N. 

Among  Mr.  Muskett’s  published  works  were  two  magazine  articles,  “  Village  Life 
in  South  Africa,”  which  appeared  in  the  Cape  Monthly  Magazine,  i860,  and  were  also 
translated  into  Dutch;  a  paper  on  ‘‘The  Boers  at  Home  ”  in  the  April  number  of  the 
Contemporary  Review,  1881 ;  two  editions  of  the  ‘‘  Pedigree  of  Ward  of  Suffolk  and 
America,”  and  he  also  edited  the  “  Evidences  of  the  Winthrops  of  Groton,  England,” 
by  the  Hon.  Robert  C.  Winthrop. 

F.  J. 


W.  POLLARD  AND  GO.,  LTD.  PRINTERS,  EXETER. 


6 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


cliill  of  ^Robert  Jlctbc,  1613. 

I  Robert  Reeve  of  Bury  Sl  Edmunds,  gent.,  do  give  and  bequeath  to  Ales  my  wife  my 
lands  in  Bury  aforesaid  for  the  term  of  her  life  ;  she  to  pay  sums  of  money  (specified)  unto  Edward 
Reeve,  my  eldest  son,  Roger  Reeve  my  son,  Thomas  Reeve  my  son,  Edmond  Reeve  rny  son,  and 
to  Margarett  my  daughter  (at  her  age  of  eighteen  years  or  day  of  marriage,  which  first  shall 
happen),  Anne  m}T  daughter  and  Frances  my  daughter  and  her  two  children.  I  appoint  Ales  my 
wife  to  be  my  sole  Executrix.  Proved  by  the  Executrix  11th  March,  1615. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  Stevens,  fo.  360. 


Hill  of  gloger  gieebe,  1672 

I,  Roger  Reeve  the  elder,  Cittizen  and  Grocer  of  London,  doe  make  this  my  last  will.  My 
body  I  comitt  to  the  earth,  to  be  decently  interred  in  the  parisli  church  of  Sl  Sepulchers  without 
Newgate.  I  give  vnto  my  loueing  sonne  Roger  Reeve  my  dwelling  house  with  the  malt  house  in 
S*  Edmundsbury,  now  in  the  tenure  of  Warmeingfeild.  Vnto  my  sonne  Pierce  Reeve  my  house  in 
Risbygate  streete  in  Sfc  Edmundsbury.  Vnto  my  sonne  Thomas  Reeve  £600.  Vnto  ni)T  daughter 
Mary  Reeve,  <£600.  Vnto  my  daughter  Hester  Reeve,  £600.  Vnto  my  sonne  Benjamin  Reeve 
(if  he  be  now  liueing)  the  like  sum,  to  be  paid  att  the  end  of  his  apprenticeshipp.  Vnto  my 
nephew  Robert  Reeve,  sonne  of  my  brother  Edward  Reeve,  £200.  Vnto  my  cosen  Recard  Grigge1 
£10.  Vnto  my  daughter  Susanna  Newman  my  little  house  and  garden  in  Istleworth  in  Middlesex,, 
after  the  death  of  my  loving  wife  Susanna  Reeve.  To  my  said  sonne  Roger  and  ray  sonne  in 

lawe  Thomas  Shaw  of  London,  Merchant,  equally,  my  other  great  house  in  Isleworth  after  the 

decease  of  my  wife.  To  every  of  my  grandchildren  which  shall  be  living  at  my  decease  £10  a 
peece.  To  the  poore  of  Sk  Sepulchers,  London,  £5  to  buy  them  Bread.  To  the  Hospitall  of  Sk 
Bartholomew’s,  London,  £20.  I  do  will  a  silver  Bowie  of  tenn  pounds  price  to  the  Company  of 
Grocers,  London.  To  my  loving  wife  Susanna  Reeve  for  the  terme  of  her  life  my  said  two 

houses  in  Istleworth  and  my  dwelling  house  on  Snow  Hill,  London,  and  the  other  house 

adjoyning ;  and  my  messuage  in  Cheapside.  My  sonne  Thomas  shall  have  my  house  wherein  I 
now  dwell  scituate  on  Snow  Hill,  London,  my  wife  reserving  thereout  to  her  selfe  for  her  and 
her  ffamily  such  rooms  as  she  shall  require  during  her  life,  and  to  pay  her  for  the  same  fourty 
pounds  per  Annum.  To  my  sonne  in  law  John  Lindsay,  Goldsmith,  and  my  sonne  in  law  Thomas 
Shaw  £100  a  peece  as  an  addition  to  their  portions  with  my  daughters.  I  nominate  my  said 

wife,  my  said  sonne  Reeve  and  my  two  sonnes  in  law  John  Lindsay  and  Thomas  Shaw,  executors 

of  this  will.  This  26th  day  of  November  1672. 

I,  the  said  Roger  Reeve,  doe  further  add  this  Codicill  to  this  will.  To  my  wife  Susanna 
Reeve  £100  to  her  own  vse  ;  also  the  white  wrought  Bedd  and  the  greene  wrought  Bedd  now  att 
Istleworth ;  and  the  wrought  Couch  in  my  Dineing  Room  on  Snow  Hill  to  her  owne  vse.  And 
I  give  her  the  vse  of  all  and  singular  my  other  goodes,  anything  in  my  last  will  to  the  contrarv 

notwithstanding.  The  28th  November  1672.  I  doe  also  give  vnto  my  daughter  in  law  Sarah  Reeve, 

widdow,  £50.  Probatum  fuit  decimo  septimo  Decembris  1672  Juramentis  Rogeri  Reeve,  Johanuis. 
Lindsay  et  Thomse  Shaw  triu  executorum.  Reservata  potestate  similem  commissionem  Susannae  Reeve 
alteri  Ex*"”.  P.C.C.  154  Eure. 

1  Rechord  Grigg.  See  Pedigree  of  Grigg  of  Bealings  Parva,  Suffolk  Manorial  Families,  vol.  i,  p.  200. 


REEVE  OF  BURY. 


7 


Hill  of  Steborah  ;§inbe,  1702* 

This  fifth  day  of  January  in  the  first  year  of  Queen  Anne,  1702,  I  Deborah  Reeve  of  the 
parish  of  St.  Sepulchre’s,  London,  spinster,  do  make  my  will.  I  did  lately  buy  divers  messuages 
in  Holborn,  Conduit  Street  and  Katherine  Wheel  Alley,  one  of  which  was  rebuilt  by  my  late 
father  Roger  Reeve  after  the  dreadfull  fire,  1666,  and  which  my  honoured  mother  now  holdeth  for 
the  term  of  her  life.  I  give  to  her  £225  and  to  my  sister,  Elizabeth  Reeve,  £100.  After  my 
mother’s  decease,  my  estate  to  remain  to  my  brother  Richard  Reeve  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  ; 
failing  these,  to  my  sister  Elizabeth  Reeve  and  the  heirs  of  her  body ;  and,  failing  these,  to  my 
right  heirs.  I  give  my  Gold  Watch,  Diamond  Ring,  Cheney  and  Cabinett,  damask,  etc.,  and  the 
rest  of  my  estate,  to  said  brother  and  sister.  My  honoured  mother,  Elizabeth  Reeve,  to  be  sole 
executrix.  Probatum  tercio  die  Decembris,  1712,  juramento  Elizabeth*  Reeve,  vidu®,  matris  et 
executricis  dicti  defuncti.  P.C.C.  243  Barnes. 


(Kill  of  jltatlta  lleebe,  1747. 

This  is  the  last  will  of  me,  Martha  Reeve  of  Great  Milton,  Oxfordshire.  I  desire  my 
daughter,  Sarah  Burdon,  may  have  my  wearing  apparel  and  £40  in  money.  I  would  have  my 
grandson  Rowland  Burdon  have  £20,  and  my  grandson  John  Burdon  £20,  and  my  grand-daughter 
Elizabeth  Burdon  £20,  and  my  tortoise  snuff  box  I  promised  to  leave  my  cousin  Skynner,  and  my 
Common  Prayer  Book  with  cuts  in  it  I  promised  to  leave  Miss  Skinner.  All  the  rest  I  leave  to 
my  son  John  Reeve,  the  sole  executor  to  this  will.  August  ye  29th,  1747. 

This  will  was  proved  on  the  twelfth  day  of  July,  1756,  by  the  oath  of  John  Reeve  the  son 
of  the  deceased.  P.C.C.  208  Glazier. 


Mill  of  John  |Slcebe,  1757. 

I  John  Reeve,  lodging  at  Mrs  Grunwin’s  in  Charter  House  Square,  London,  do  make  this 
my  last  Will  and  Testament  as  followeth.  I  bequeath  my  Capital  Messuage  and  ffarme  at  Great 
Milton  in  the  County  of  Oxford,  which  I  lately  purchased,  and  my  ffreehold  messuages  in  Snow 
Hill  in  the  parish  of  Sfc  Sepulchre’s,  London,  Maiden  Lane,  Covent  Garden,  and  in  Isleworth  co- 
Middx,  unto  my  nephew,  John  Burdon,  my  sister  Sarah  Burdon’s  youngest  son,  who  is  now 
apprenticed  to  Mr  Quarrell,  a  colourman  in  White  Chappie.  I  also  gave  him  £12,000  Capital 
Stock  in  the  Bank  of  England.  I  give  to  my  sister  Mrs  Sarah  Burdon,  widdow,'  now  living  at 
New  Castle  upon  Tine,  an  annuity  of  £300 :  my  Executor  to  give  her  security  for  the  same  in 
land  or  in  stocks.  To  my  niece  Mrs  Elizabeth  Burdon,  now  living  with  her  mother,  an  annuity 
of  £200.  To  my  good  friend  and  partner  Mr  John  King  £1,000,  desiring  him  to  accept  the  same. 
To  Mrs  Mary  Reeve  of  Norwich,  the  daughter  of  Henry  Reeve  deceased,  who  was  formerly  a 
seedsman  in  Fleet  Street,  £100.  To  the  three  daughters  of  Fawconberg  Reeve,  late  apothedary  at 
Stamford  in  Lincolnshire,  £100  to  each  of  them.  Executor  to  pay  interest  for  the  same  to  their 
mother,  Mrs  Mary  Reeve,  widow,  as  long  as  they  live  with  her.  Unto  Fawconberg  Reeve, 


8 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


brother  to  the  three  girls,  who  is  now  in  the  Blue  Coat  Hospital,  otherwise  Christ’s  Hospital 
London,  £200  at  his  age  of  one  and  twenty.  To  Mrs  Susan  Baker  of  Great  Milton,  co.  Oxford, 
widow.  £100.  To  the  son  and  two  daughters  of  my  cousin  John  Chase  who  now  lives  at  the 
Horse  Shoe  Berehouse  in  Sfc  Giles’s  in  the  Fields,  to  each  of  them  £500  when  twenty  one.  To 
Henry  Nourse  the  son  of  my  cousin,  John  Nourse  of  Wood  Eaton,  co.  Oxford,  £500.  To  Judith 
Nourse,  Elizabeth  Nourse  and  Appolonia  Nourse,  sisters  of  the  said  Henry,  to  each  of  them  £500. 
Unto  Christ’s  Hospital,  London,  £500.  To  the  Ward  School  of  Farringdon  within,  £50.  To  the 
four  Charity  Schools  belonging  to  the  parish  of  Sfc  Sepulchres,  £50  each.  Unto  my  nephew, 
Mr  Rowland  Burdon  of  New  Castle  upon  Tine,  merchant,  the  Residue  of  all  my  estates,  and 
I  do  make  him  my  whole  and  sole  Executor.  This  21st  day  of  March,  1757.  Witnesses,  Hugh 
King,  Rob1  Bodington,  Richd  Roberts. 

This  will  of  John  Reeve  Esqre  was  proved  in  the  Prerogative  Court  of  Canterbury  by  the 
oath  of  Rowland  Burdon,  the  nephew  of  the  deceased,  29U|  Novr  1757. 

P.C.C.  338  Herring. 


l\crbf  Prbtgiff,  ?i)arbrp's  Visitation  of 

1561. 

Roger  Reve  of  Bury  St.  Edmond  in  the  County e  of  Suff.  gent,  maryed  Margarett  daughter 
to  ..  .  Cooke  and  had  yssue  John,  sonne  &  heire,  Edmonde  Reeve,  second  sonne,  A  preist, 
Edivard  third  sonne. 

Edward  Reeve  of  Bury  St.  Edmond  in  the  Countie  of  Suff.,  gent.,  third  sonne  to  Roger  Reeve, 
maryed  Margarett  daugfw  to  William  Coo  of  Boxforde  in  the  Countie  of  Suff.  and  had  yssue 
Edward,  sonne  heire,  Roger  second  sonne,  Clement  third  sonne,  Robert,  fourth  sonne,  William, 
ffyfte  sonne,  M’gerett  maried  to  George  ffawcon  of  Bury  St.  Edmond,  Jane  maried  to  Robert 
Samon  of  Bury  St.  Edmond,  Anne,  Dorothe,  Marye  and  Susan. 

Edward  sonne  &  heire  to  Edward. 

Harl.  MS.  1103,  fo.  24  b. 


l\rrbr  ipedujrrr,  Camden’s  Ctsttatton  of 

Suffolk,  161*2. 

Robert  Reve,  fourth  sonne  of  Edward,  mar.  Alice,  da.  of  William  Andrews  of  Bury 
St.  Edmond,  and  hath  issue,  Edward  sonne  and  heir ;  Edmond,  second  sonne ;  Roger,  third 
sonne;  John,  fourth  sonne;  Thomas,  fifth  sonne;  Frances,  Margaret  and  Ann. 

Metcalfe’s  Suffolk  Visitations,  p.  161. 


REEVE  OF  BURY. 


9 


ftccbf  iprMgrn,  $)arl.  1560,  fol.  29  b. 


i - — - 1 - 

7.  John  Reeve.  2.  Edmond  Reeve. 


Royer  Reeve  of  St.  Edmond’s  bury  in  Stiff.  Margaret.t,  d.  of  .  .  .  Cooke. 

I 

_ I _ _ _ 


T" 


3.  Edward  Reeve  of=j=Margerett,  d.  of  Willin’  Coo 
St.  Edmond’s  bury.  I  of  Boxford. 


Margerett  vx.  Win.  Tassell 
of  St.  Edmond’s  Bury. 


Margerett  vx.  George 
ffawcon  of  St.  Ed- 
mumdsbury. 


- 1 - - 

Jane  vx.  Rob. 
Samon  of  St. 
Edmondsb  ury. 


l— I - 

Anne. 


Dorothy. 


I  T 

Mary. 

Susan. 


- ! - 

4.  Robert  Ree  ve  - 
of  St.  Edmond’s 
bury. 


-Alice,  d.  of 
Wm.  Andrews 
of  Bury. 


- tt - 

2.  Roger. 

3.  Clement. 


- - 1 

1.  Edward. 
5.  William. 


i  r  “i  t  n  r  ~r  n 

ffrances  Reeve  vx.  Maryarett  Reeve  vx.  Ann  Reeve  7.  Edward  2.  Edmond  Reeve  3.  Roger  Reeve  of  London,  4.  John  Reeve  5.  Thom 

John  Haslopp  of  Robert  Gregg,  clarke,  vnmaried  Reeve.  of  Ipswich  m.  Grocer,  m.  Debora,  d.  of  m.  Julian,  d.  Reeve. 

Trompington  in  sonn  of  ..  .  Gregg  of  1626.  Elizebeth  d.  of  Leonard  Hnncks  of  Clark-  of . 

Com.  Cambridg.  Pintles  Church  yard  .  ...  Gooderidg  enwell  in  Com’  Midlesex.  Gough, 

in  London.  of  Bery.  =j= 

I 


L 


7.  Leonard  Reeve  full  3  genre  old  in  Mage  1626. 


2.  Roger. 


n 

Debora. 


Harleian  MS.  1560,  was  written  by  Mr.  Mundy  and  Robert  Dale,  Su'Tolk  Herald  Extraordinary,  whose  corresponding 
MS.  relating  to  Norfolk  is  dated  1620. 


^riuffrrr,  SJtsttatton  of  Honbou  1634. 


Reaue  alls.  Mellford.- 


ltoger^P Margaret,  da.  of 


Roane. 


Cook. 


John.  Re ve  als.  Melford  Abbott 
of  St.  Edmonds  Bury. 


Edward  Reave  of  St.  Edmonds  Bury  in  Com.  Suffolk,  3  sonn.-j-Marga.rett,  d.  of  Wm.  Coe  of  Boxford. 


Robt.  Reaue  of  St.  Edmonds  Bury,  4  sonne. -p Alice,  da.  of  Wm.  Andrus  of  Bury  St.  Edmonds. 

\ 

J 


r— - r - 1 — - 1 - r - -  i  _ 

Franeis,  1.  Margaret,  2.  Anne,  3.  1.  Edward  Reve,  2.  Edmond  Reaue,  3.  Roger  Reaue  of  London,  Salter,  liviny-j-Debora,  daur.  of 

1  sonne.  2  sonne.  anno.  1634,  married  to  his  2  wife  Sazan, 

da.  of  Pierce  Morgan  =p 


Lennard  Hanks 
of  Lon  don,l  wife. 


John  Reaue,  2  so.  Pierce.  Roger  Rene,  eldest  sonn. 

(Signed)  Roger  Rene. 


C 


10 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Rrrbr  of  33ury  &t.  gftunuirtfii 


lloger  Reeve,  of  Mel-=p  Alice.  da.  of  John  Freman.  She= 


ford,  in  Suffolk,  1st 
hush. ;  bin-,  in  Melford 
Church. 


Thomas  Mon-=f=. 


sister  and 


ings,  of  Bury 
St.  Edmunds. 


I - 

Margaret 
Moning,  da. 

&  coheir,  mar. 
Thos.  Wing¬ 
field,  of  Sand¬ 
wich. 


Arms  of  Bury  Abbey. 

Azure,  3  ducal  croivns,  2  1  Or,  each 

pierced  with  frivo  arrows,  in  saltire 
of  the  last ; 

impaling 
Reeve  of  Bury. 

Argent,  on  a  fess  engrailed  Sable, 
between  3  escallops  Azure,  3  eagles 
displayed  Or. 

A  crozier  behind  the  shield.  The 
whole  surmounted  by  a  mitre  Or. 


devisee  of  John 
Reeve,  1540. 


Catherine,  da. 
and  coh.,  mar. 
JohnWolrich, 
of  Wickham- 
brook. 


Elizabeth  Moning,  da. 
coh.,  unmar.  1540. 


and 


made  Will,  P.C.C.  37  Holgrave, 
1  Aug.  1505,  desiring  to  be  buried 
in  Melford  Church. 


AVilliam  Leder,  of 
Melford,  2d  husb. ; 
was  dead  in  Au¬ 
gust  1505. 


John  Reeve  als.  Melford,  the  last  Abbot  of  Bury.  Will,  P.C.C. 
18  Crumwel,  26  March  1540  ;  proved  14  April  following ;  bur. 
in  the  chancel  of  St.  Mary’s  Church,  Bury  St.  Edmunds. 


- 1 — I — 

Margar¬ 
et  and 
Marion, 
living 
1505. 


Margery,  relict  of= 
John  Bacon,  mar. 
William  Page,  of 
Hessett.  HisWill, 
P.C.C.  27  Street. 

. . I 


=John  Bacon 
Drinkstone,  co. 
Suffolk.  Will, 
P.C.C.  10  Crum¬ 
wel,  1536. 


1 

of=f=  Agnes,  nam¬ 
ed  in  her 
mother’s 
Will  ao.1505. 


Edward  Page,  of  Westley,  gent. 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  1558. 


V 


Roger  Reeve,  of  BurySt.  Ed -=f= Margaret, 


munds.  WiP,  P.C.C.  24 
Dinglev,  27  August  1538, 
proved  4  Feb.  following. 


da.  of 
Cooke. 


Margaret  Ba¬ 
con,  married 
George  Tay¬ 
lor,  of  Lidgate. 


- 1 - 

. . .  Bacon, 
mar.  John 
Frere  the 
elder. 


— I - 

.  .  .  Bason, 
m.  Thomas 
Frere  the 
younger. 


. . .  Bacon, 
mar.  John 
Aldham. 


L 


1 .  John  Reeve,  of 
Fornham  Geno- 
vieve ;  mar.  and 
had  issue. 


- r 

2.  Edmund 
Reeve,  a 
priest. 


3.  Edward  Reeve, =f=Margaret,  dau. 


of  Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds. 


1 .  Edward  Reeve, ^=. 
of  Bury,  gent. 
Will, Arch.  Sudb., 

10  Nov.  1537. 


,  dead  1597 ; 
bur.  in  the  Jesus 
Aisle  in  St.  Mary’s 
Church. 


- 1 - 

2.  Roger  Reeve, =f=Mar 


T 


of  Bury,  gent. 
Will, Arch. Sudb. 
1607;  hadgrand- 
son,  Hugh  Pas¬ 
more. 


garet. 


- I - 

3.  Cle¬ 
ment 
Reeve, 
third 


t 


of  William  Coo, 
of  Boxford. 


- 1 - 

Margaret,  mar. 
William  Tassell, 
of  Bury. 


- 1 

Joan,  wife 
of  Robert 
Laye,  ao. 
1538. 


4.  Robert  Reeve,  Alice, 


Roger.  Robert.  William.  Dorothy. 


of  Burv,  gent. 
Will, Arch. Sudb. 
1615 ;  devisee  of 
Edward  Page, 
1558.  Bur.atSt. 
James  6  Feb. 
1615. 


I 

1.  Edward=^... 

Reeve,  son  and 
heir,  1612. 

I - ' 

liobert  Reeve,  devi¬ 
see  of  his  uncle 
Roger  Reeve  1672.  enwell. 


da.  of 
William 
Andrews, 
of  Burv 
St.  Ed¬ 
munds. 


5,'wil- 

liam 

Reeve. 


- 1  I - 

Margaret,  wife 
of  Gerge  Faw- 
con,  of  Bury. 

Jane,  wife  of 
Robt.  Salmon, 
of  Bury. 


'Illl 

Dorothy. 

Mary. 

Susan. 

Anne. 


Debora, =f=3.  Roger  Reeve. 


1st  wife, 
dau.  of 
Leonard 
Hancks, 
of  Clerk- 


of  London.  Will, 
P.C.C.  154  Eure 
1672 ;  entered 
ped.  in  London 
Visitation  1634. 


L 


Roger  Reeve,  of  =f  Eliza beth, 


London,  eldest 
son.  Will,  P.C.C. 
22  Vere  1690. 
M.I.  in  St.  Sep- 
nlchre’sCliurch, 
NewgateStrect . 


da.of  John 
Wilcox. 
She  died 
10  Feb. 

1 71  £•,  aged 
75.  M.I. 


Deborah,  wife 
of  Thos.  Shaw, 
of  London, 
1672.  (Was 
she  dau.  of  her 
father’s  second 
wife  ?) 


Susanna, 
2d  wrife, 
dau.  of 
Pierce 
Morgan. 


- 1 - 1 - I - 1 - 

2.EdmundReeve,  4. John  5.  Thomas  Frances, 
of  Ipswich,  mar.  Reeve,  Reeve,  mar.  John 
Elizabeth,  dau.  of  mar.  named  in  Haslop,  of 
.  .  .  Gooderidge,  Julian,  his  fa-  Trump- 
of  Bury,  a  quo.  dau.  of  ther’s  Will  ington, 
Reeve  of  ....  1615.  co.  Cam- 

Ipswich.  Gough.  bridge. 


- 1 - — 

Margaret,  m. 
Robert  Grigg, 
clerk,  son  of 
.  .  .  Grigg,  of 
St.  Paul’s 
Churchvard. 


- I 

Anne 

Reeve, 

unm. 

in 

1626. 


Richard  Reeve, 
ofLondon.  Will. 
P.C.C.,  1702  ; 

largebequeststo 
St.  Sepulchre’s 
parish,  etc. ;  ob. 
s.p. 


- 1 - 

Hester  Reeve, 
of  Isleworth,co. 
Middx.,  ob.  s.p. 
Will,  P.C.C.  151 
Browning,  22 
Oct.  1703,probt. 
14  Aug.  1719. 


- n - 

Leonard  Reeve. 


Thomas  Reeve, 
dead  in  1719, 
when  Hester, 
his  sister,  made 
Will. 


- r — ; — 

Benjamin 
Reeve ; 
his  widow 
was  devi¬ 
see  of  Hes¬ 
ter  Reeve, 
1719. 


- r~i 

Susanna,  wife  of 

. Newman, 

living  1672. 

?  Atin  Newton  ; 
had  daughter  Sus¬ 
anna  1702. 


REEVE  OF  BURY. 


Roger  Reeve,  of 
London,  gent. 
Will,  P.C.C.  196 
Bond,  1696. 
Elizth.,  his  mo¬ 
ther  executrix. 


Thos. 
Reeve, 
died 
appar¬ 
ently, 
s.p.  ‘ 


- 1 - 

Richard  Reeve,  of 
St.  Sepulchre’s, 
Loudon,  ob.  s.p. 
Will,  P.C.C.  1744, 
estates  to  John 
Reeve,  his  cousin. 


n 

I _ 


Deborah  Reeve, 
d.  1712.  Will, 
P.C.C.  243 
Barnes  1702  ; 
prob.  1712  to 
her  mother. 


John  Reeve,  2d  son,  1634. 
Martha  Reeve,  his  widow, 
was  of  Great  Milton,  co. 
Oxon  when  she  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  1757. 


Pierce  Reeve ; 
dead  in  1702 
when  Richard 
Reeve,  his  bro¬ 
ther,  made  his 
Will.  =F 


Mary,  mar. 
.  .  .  Chace, 
&  had  dau., 
Deborah 
Chace,  in 
1619. 


.  .  .  ,  ?  wife 
of  John 
Lindsay,  of 
London, 
goldsmith, 
1672. 


Elizabeth  Reeve ; 
died  s.p.  4  Dec. 
1739,  aged  63. 
M.I. 


John  Reeve,  of  Great 
Milton,  co.  Oxford,  Esq. 
Will,  P.C.C.  338  Herring 
1757;  estates  to  nephew 
Rowland  Burdon,  Esq. 


Sarah,  sister  and=7=  Rowland  Burdon, 


devisee  of  John 
Reeve  1757,  died 
16  March  1780. 


of  Newcastle  up¬ 
on  Tyne,  clerk, 
who  died  1750. 


I  r 

Elizabeth  and 
Anne,  unmar. 
in  1702 ;  devi¬ 
sees  of  Hester 
Reeve  1703. 


.  .  Reeve, =7=.. 
apparent¬ 
ly  dead  in 
i702. 


"I 


T~ 


L 


Susanna,  widowof 
....  Henley  or 
Henlin,  1702;  de¬ 
visee  of  her  uncle1 
Richard  Reeve. 


Rowland  Burdon,  b.=pElizabeth,  dau.  of 


1724 ;  executor  to  his 
uncle  John  Reeve, 1757; 
bought  Castle  Eden, 
1758  ;  ob.  1786. 


George  Smith, 
Nonjuring  Bishop 
of  Durham. 


John  Burdon,  clerk,  a 
Nonjuror,  curate  of 
Sedgefield,  devisee  of 
his  uncle  John  Reeve 
1757  ;  ob.  unmar. 


Elizabeth  Burdon,  devisee 
of  her  uncle  John  Reeve 
1757  ;  was  then  of  New¬ 
castle  npon  Tyne  ;  ob.  s.p. 


I - 

Henry  Reeve,  devisee  of 
Richd.  Reeve,  his  great 
uncle,  1702.  Was  this 
Henry  Reeve  of  Nor¬ 
wich  ? 


- 1 

Peter  Reeve, 
devisee  of 
Rich.  Reeve, 
his  great 
uncle,  1702. 


Margaret,  dau.  of  Charles  Brandling, = 
M.P.  for  Newcastle  ;  1st  wife,  died  1791. 


Rowland 
Durham  ; 
1838. 


Burdon,  Esq.,  of  Castle  Eden,  co.= 
M.P.  for  Durham;  born  1756;  died 


Cotsford,  2d  wife,  da.  and  sole  heir  of  General 
Richard  Matthews,  who  was  killed  by  Tippoo 
Sahib  ;  mar.  1794. 


Elizabeth  Burdon,  sole 
issue  by  this  marriage ; 
born  1883  ;  died  1791, 
aged  9  years. 


 r - : 

Anne  Mabel  Uthoff, — -Rowland  Burdon,  of  Castle 
born  1810  ;  died  Eden,  J.P.  and  D.L.  ;  born 
1885,  s.p.  1802  ;  died  1875,  s.p.  J.P. 

and  D.L. 


Rev.  John  Burdon, =j=Elizabeth  Anne,  dau.  of  Henry 


M.A.,  of  Castle  Eden  ; 
Rector  of  English 
Bicknor,  1844—1877. 


Hale,  E.I.C.,  Marit.  Service,  2d  sou 
of  General  John  Hale  ;  Col.  17th 
Light  Dragoons  ;  Governor  of 
Londonderry. 


John  George  Bur-=Blanche  Louisa,  6th  dau.  Elizabeth  Anne, 
don,  born  1859 ;  mar.  of  General  Edward  born  1851. 

1892.  Somerset,  C.B. 


Rowland  Burdon,  Esq.,  of  Castle=f  Mary  Arundel,  2d  dau.  of 


Eden,  co.  Durham,  J.P.  and  D.L., 
born  1857  ;  mar.  1887. 


Wyndham  Slade,  Esq.,  Monty* 
Court,  Taunton,  Somerset. 


Rowland  Burdon,  born  1893. 


Frances  Mary,  born  1889. 


Joan,  born  1895. 


Lettice,  born  1900. 


As  late  as  the  eighteenth  century  a  number  of  East  Anglians  still  claimed  descent 
from  the  Reeves  of  Bury.  Some  of  these  are  mentioned  by  Gillingwater  in  his  “  Account  of 
Bury  St.  Edmunds,  1804.”  “Abbot  Reeve  seems  to  have  been  one  of  the  ancestors  of  the 
family  of  that  name  that  resided  at  Harleston  in  Norfolk,  their  arms  being,  Arg.,  on  a  fess 
engrailed  Sab.  between  3  escallops  Gul.  3  eagles  Arg.  The  family  appears  to  have  been  situated 
in  London  at  the  time  of  the  restoration.  In  the  church  of  St.  Sepulchre  some  memorials 
may  still  be  seen.  The  family  was  burnt  out  of  London  by  the  great  fire  in  1667,  and  with 
the  remains  of  their  fortune  one  branch  purchased  the  inn  at  Stonham  in  this  county,  called 
the  Stonham  Pie,  where  they  resided  many  years.  The  descendants  came  to  Harleston,  where 
lately  resided  Mr.  William  Reeve,  an  eminent  surgeon,  of  considerable  property.  The  Rev. 
William  Reeve,  his  only  son,  Vicar  of  Hoxne  and  Denham,  a  person  of  great  learning  and 
generosity,  died  in  1786.  In  him  this  branch  of  the  family  became  extinct.  There  was  a  few 
years  ago  an  eminent  physician  in  London  of  this  family ;  and  another  branch  lived  at 
Bildeston  in  Suffolk,  a  descendant  of  whom,  Mr.  Read  Reeve,  was  lately  living  at  Lavenham 
in  this  county.” 

C? 


12 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


(Mill  of  Jiicltarb  JUm,  170 2. 

Richard  Reeve,  Citizen  &  Merchant  Taylor  of  London.  To  be  interred  in  S4,  Sepulchre’s 
parish,  London.  To  my  sisters,  Anne  Newton,  Deborah  Shaw,  Mary  Chase  <fc  Hester  Reeves 
[sic]  £50  apiece.  To  my  couzins  Susanna  Henly,  widdowe,  <fc  Elizabeth  Reeves,  daughters  of 
my  late  brother,  Peirce  Reeves  £100  apiece,  &  to  their  sister,  Anne  Reeves,  £4  per  annum  for 
life.  To  my  nephews  Henry  Reeves  &  Peter  Reeves,  grandsons  of  my  brother  Peirce  .£200 
apeice.  To  my  couzens  Deborah  &  Elizabeth  Reeves,  daughters  of  my  brother  Roger  Reeves, 
£20  apeice.  To  Doctor  Coatsworth  and  his  wife.  Cozen  John  Reeves  sonn  of  my  brother 
John  Reeves.  To  my  sister  Anne  Newton  &  her  daughter  Susanna,  £10  apeice  To  Sl 
Bartholomew’s  Hospital  £50.  To  the  releasing  poor  prisoners  out  of  the  London  prisons,  £200 ; 
each  to  have  £5  to  buy  tools  to  maintain  themselves  To  the  Ministers  and  Churchwardens  of 
S*  Sepulchre’s,  upon  trust,  for  the  education  in  the  fear  of  God  &  the  maintenance  & 
apprenticesing  of  poor  children.  They  to  be  my  joint  executors.  This  22d  day  of  August, 
1702,  in  the  first  year  of  Queen  Anne  Probate,  23d  Novr  by  the  oaths  of  the  Guardians  of 
Sl  Sepulchres,  as  executors. 

P.C.C.  130  Herne. 


(Still  of  fester  Keeoe,  1719. 

Hester  Reeve  of  Thistleworth,  co.  Middx.,  spinster,  22d  Oct1'  1703,  in  good  health.  To 
my  brother  Shaw,  my  brother  Thomas  Reeve’s  ffuneral  ring.  To  Dr  Caleb  Coatsworth,  my 
ffather  and  mother’s  rings  ;  and  to  Madam  Coatsworth  his  wife,  her  mother’s  and  my  ffather’s 
lockets  and  my  cosen  Grigg’s  ring.  To  my  brother  Benjamin  Reeve’s  widow.  To  my  sister 
Reeve,  being  at  Snow  Hill,  and  her  eldest  daughter  and  her  youngest  daughter  Elizabeth.  To 
Mr  John  Reeve,  my  eldest  brother’s  son,  my  ffather  and  mother’s  picture.  My  neece  Ann  Reeve 
and  her  sisters  Henlin  and  Elizabeth.  My  nephew,  Mr  Thomas  Shaw,  neece  Elizabeth  Bearcroft, 
cozen  Tourney,  wife  of  Mr  Anthony  Tourney.  To  my  sister  Deborah  Shaw,  if  a  widow, 

one  hundred  pounds  :  her  son  Thomas  Shaw.  Sister  Mary  Chace  and  her  daughter  Deborah 

Chace.  Neece  Mr8  Ann  Sisson,  wife  of  Benjamin  Sisson.  Residue  of  my  estate  to  said 

sister  Deborah  Shaw,  to  use  as  she  will.  My  nephew  Thomas  Shaw  to  be  sole  executor. 

Testatrix  bequeaths  old  china,  many  rings,  two  pieces  of  broad  gold,  substantial  sums  of  money, 
bread  for  the  poor,  and  40  shillings  to  Mr  Williams,  Lecturer  of  Thistlewood.  Only  relations 
to  be  present  at  her  ffuneral.  This  will  was  proved  14tb  August,  1719,  by  the  oath  of  Thomas 
Shaw,  the  Executor. 


3Hert)e  of  Jlpstoitl). 


®Still  of  ffilnnuni)  ^eetic,  1644. 

Edmond  Reeve  of  Ipswich,  haberdasher,  9th  April,  1644.  The  howse  I  now  dwell  in  ys  in 
mortgage  to  Bryan  Smyth,  clerk,  ffor  £140.  My  desire  ys  that  Elizabeth  my  wyef  may  pay  the 
money,  and  the  vse  thereof,  to  the  sayd  Bryan  Smith  ;  and  soe  I  give  the  sayd  lands  <fc 
tenementes  soe  mortgaged  to  her  and  her  hey  res,  towardes  the  bringing  vpp  of  my  children.  I 
give  all  my  goodes  to  her.  I  nominate  her,  my  loveing  wyef,  to  be  sole  executrix.  Witnesses, 
Daniel  Ray,  John  Smith.  Seal  of  Arms,  probably  that  of  the  attorney  or  one  of  the  witnesses, 
a  chevron  between  three  fleurs-de-lis. 

Arch.  Suffolk,  Original  Wills,  1644,  No.  84. 

The  baptisms  of  the  children  of  Edmund  Reeve  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  are  entered  in  the 
Registers  of  St.  Laurence’s  parish,  Ipswich,  from  1619  to  1638. 


^ministration  of  Thomas  Mnbz,  1675. 

Admc0  honor  Thomce  Reeve  nuper  de  Gippo,  xxv°  die  Martis,  1674,  comiss  fuit  Marice 
Cope  ats  Reeve  vxori  dicti  defuncti.  Teneter  dictus  Rich  Cope  de  London  et  Johes  Reeve  de 
Gippo. 

Arch.  Suff.  Admonns,  1673,  No.  29. 


Mill  of  John  Jt eebe,  1701. 

This  six  and  twentieth  day  of  June,  1701,  I  John  Reeve  of  Ipswich,  Haberdasher  of 
Hatts,  considering  the  uncertainty  of  this  frayl  and  rnortall  life,  doe  make  this  my  last  Will 
and  Testament,  First  and  principally  I  comit  my  Soul  into  the  hands  of  God  my  Creator,  and 
my  Body  to  the  Earth  from  whence  it  came.  And  for  my  worldly  estate  I  dispose  thereof  as 
followeth.  My  debts  shall  be  paid  by  my  loveing  wife,  Mary  Reeve.  And  for  that  end  1  give 
unto  [her]  all  my  messuages  and  tenements  (that  is  to  say),  my  messuage  wherein  Mr.  John 
Burrough  lately  dwelt,  since  deceased,  in  the  parish  of  St.  Stephen  in  Ipswich ;  and  that  late 
in  the  tenure  of  John  Harrison  and  John  Jannings  in  the  parish  of  St.  Lawrence  in  Ipswich ; 
and  that  wherein  John  Clarke,  an  Ironmonger,  now  dwells,  in  the  said  parish  of  St.  Lawrence ; 


14 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


and  ray  Shop  and  chamber  in  Newmarket,  to  have  and  to  hold  to  ray  said  wife ;  requiring  her 
to  sell  said  two  messuages  in  Brook  Street  and  my  shop  in  Newmarket  as  soon  as  may  be  for 
the  payment  of  my  debts  ;  and  the  remaynder  of  the  moneys,  after  my  wife’s  decease,  I  give  to 
my  two  maiden  daughters,  Martha  Reeve  and  Ann  Reeve  equally.  Furthermore  I  bequeath  unto 
[them]  the  remaynder  of  my  estate.  I  ordain  my  said  wife  Executrix,  and  appoint  my  son 
Thomas  Reeve  supervisor,  to  whom  and  to  my  daughter  Grimwood  T  give  twenty  shillings 
[apiece]  to  buy  them  Rings. 

Arch.  Suff.  Wills,  1701. 


(Mill  of  JFtartha  llecbc,  1750. 

Martha  Reeve  of  Ipswich,  spinster,  this  2'1  day  of  February,  17|§.  To  be  buried  in  the 
parish  church  of  St.  Laurence  in  Ipswich,  near  my  dear  sister  Anne  Reeve.  To  my  loving 
brother,  Thomas  Reeve,  £50,  and  to  his  youngest  son,  Thomas  Reeve  £ 50 .  To  his  daughter 
Elizabeth,  <£100,  and  his  daughters  Maria  and  Jane,  each  £40.  To  John  Grimwood,  son  of  my 
sister  Mary  Grimwood,  his  bond  of  £50,  and  £10  in  money.  To  Thomas  Grimwood  and  his 
sister  Elizabeth,  wife  of  John  Osborne,  two  wrought  silver  spoones  and  my  silver  saucepan.  To 
my  three  neices  Maria,  Elizabeth  and  Jane,  daughters  of  my  brother  Thomas  Reeve,  my  house¬ 
hold  goods,  plate  and  linen.  To  the  poor  of  St.  Laurence’s  parish.  Rings  of  a  Ginny  Value 
(or  money)  to  the  wife  of  my  brother  Reeve,  Margaret,  wife  of  my  nephew,  Thomas  Grimwood, 
and  Elizabeth  Osborne  his  sister,  and  to  Dorcas,  wife  of  Pearle  Richman.  The  residue  I  give 
to  my  brother,  Thomas  Reeve,  whom  I  make  my  executor,  also  £20  for  charges.  Proved  24th  May, 
1731,  bv  the  Executor. 

Arch.  Suff.  Liber  Pickering,  fo.  213. 


(Still  of  <|Ftarj),  Lmfc  of  Thomas  Jlccbc,  1751. 

I,  Mary  Reeve,  wife  of  Thomas  Reeve  of  Ipswich,  clerk,  by  virtue  of  Indentures  before 
my  marriage,  make  this  will.  My  late  husband,  Mr.  Robert  Cole’s  will  is  to  be  performed.  I 
devise  to  my  executor  .£300  upon  trust,  with  consent  of  my  sister  Elizabeth,  the  wife  of  Robert 
Sore  of  Ipswich,  Mariner,  to  be  put  out  to  interest,  to  be  paid  to  her,  or  to  any  person  she 
shall  direct,  for  her  maintenance  exclusive  of  her  husband.  If  she  be  in  want,  portions  of  the 
principal  shall  be  given  her  from  time  to  time.  After  her  death  I  give  the  money  to  her  two 
children  equally,  Robert  Sore  and  Anne  Sore.  To  my  brother,  Mr  Wright-Turner,  £290.  To  my 
nephew  Thomas  Turner,  son  of  my  late  brother  Mr  Christopher  Turner,  £300.  To  said  Anne 
Sore,  daughter  of  my  sister,  £110  and  my  gold  chain  of  seven  links,  with  locket  annexed.  To 
my  nephews  Thomas  Turner  and  Wright  Turner  and  the  said  Anne  Sore  all  my  plate  equally. 
My  uncle  Mr  John  Ruddes,  £10.  My  daughters-in-law,  Mr8  Maria  Reeve,  Mrs  Elizabeth  Reeve, 
and  M™  Jane  Reeve,  and  my  son-in-law.  Mr  Thomas  Reeve,  junior;  my  granddaughter,  Clare 
Reeve;  my  sister-in-law,  M,s  Martha  Reeve;  Mrs  Margaret  Ruddes,  daughter  of  said  John  Ruddes; 
M"  Mary  Turner,  widow  of  my  brother,  Christopher  Turner.  To  be  buried  in  St  Clement’s 
church  in  my  late  husband  Cole’s  grave  (with  inscription  to  my  memory).  To  my  loving  husband 
£50.  This  20th  day  of  March,  1731.  Proved  7U|  Dec1  1732,  by  the  oath  of  Thomas  Turner, 
the  executor. 


P.C.C.  293  Bedford. 


REEVE  OF  IPSWICH. 


15 


fflill  of  Thomas  ^Hcebc,  1745. 

Thomas  Reeve  of  Ipswich,  clerk,  5th  Nov.  1741.  All  my  children  (except  my  son  Thomas 
lleeve,  who  lias  had  his  share),  to  have  their  shares  of  £500,  secured  by  Indenture  25th  April 
1693,  made  on  my  marriage  with  Elizabeth  Brerewood,  my  late  wife.  To  my  son  William  Reeve, 
my  canonical  apparel  and  my  Library  of  Books.  To  my  son  Thomas  Reeve,  £20.  To  my  three 
daughters,  Maria,  Elizabeth  and  Jane,  all  household  goods,  linen  and  plate,  equally  to  be 
divided. 

My  share  in  the  Perpetual-  Assurance  Office,  and  all  residue  of  personal  estate,  to  my  son 
William  Reeve  and  my  daughters  equally.  Daughters  Maria  and  Elizabeth  to  be  executrices. 
Witnesses,  William  Burroughs,  Elizabeth  Burroughs,  and  Peregrine  Love.  A  codicil  dated  5  Dec 
1744  gives  Thomas,  the  son,  an  additional  £30.  Proved  by  the  Executrices  9th  Sept.  1745. 

Norwich  Consistory  Will  Book  for  1745,  fo.  15. 


®tll  of  SStilliam  1755. 

William  Reeve  of  Ipswich,  clerk,  28u*  July,  1755.  Hannah  my  wife  to  have  all  my  goods 
for  life,  and  the  interest  on  all  personal  estate. 

I  give  the  house  T  dwell  in,  in  Sl  Helen’s  parish,  to  my  wife  for  life ;  and  on  her 
decease  to  Samuel  Reeve,  my  eldest  son,  on  trust.  He  to  sell  the  same  and  to  divide  all  personal 
estate  equally  among  my  children ;  each  to  have  their  share  at  their  several  ages  of  twenty-one 
years.  My  son  Samuel  Reeve  and  Hannah  my  wife  to  be  executors.  Witnesses,  Loff.  Knight, 
Robert  Marriot,  junior,  and  Thomas  Jenner.  Proved  26th  Septr  1755,  by  the  widow. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norwic,  1755,  fo.  224. 


Still  of  Samuel  gleebe,  1801. 

This  is  the  last  will  of  me,  Samuel  Reeve,  Vice  Admiral  in  the  Royal  Navy,  now 

residing  at  Ipswich.  I  give  to  each  of  my  sisters,  Clara  Reeve,  Lucia  the  wife  of  Aaron  Tozer, 

Hannah  wife  of  Frederick  Charles  Reinhold,  Jane  Reeve  and  Sarah  Reeve,  £200;  To  each  of 

them  also  an  annuity  i'80.  To  my  brother,  Thomas  Reeve,  £500.  My  late  brother  Richard 
Reeve.  To  Sir  John  Colpoys,  Knight  of  the  Bath,  and  Admiral  in  the  Royal  Navy,  £100, 

in  consideration  of  his  trouble,  as  he  has  obligingly  consented  to  be  my  executor.  I  request  he 

will  accept  any  trinket  of  mine,  as  a  token  of  my  sincere  affection  for  him,  [such  as]  my  gold 
watch  bought  by  himself,  or  a  ring  given  me  by  the  late  Mr.  Hammond.  To  Aaron  Tozer, 

£100,  and  a  ring.  The  residue  of  my  estate  I  give  to  my  said  brother  Thomas  Reeve  [with 

remainder  to]  his  son,  my  nephew  and  godson  Samuel  ;  said  monies  to  be  left  entire  to  him 
and  his  issue ;  if  both  die  without  issue,  the  monies  [to  pass]  to  the  Marine  Society  in  London, 
unless  my  sisters  be  living.  I  appoint  the  said  Sir  John  Colpoys,  Aaron  Tozer  and  Thomas 

Reeve,  executors. 

This  will  was  proved  13th  June,  1803,  by  Sir  John  Colpoys,  Aaron  Tozer,  Esq.,  and  the 
Rev'1  Thomas  Reeve,  clerk,  brother  of  the  deceased. 


P.C.C.  575  Marriot. 


16 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


l\rrl)f  of  Jfysimri). 

Edward  Reeve,  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  3d  son  of  Roger  Reeve„=f  Margaret,  da.  of  William  Coo. 
and  nephew  of  John  Reeve  the  last  Abbot  of  Bury.  I  of  Boxford. 


~1  I 


Edward  Reeve,  of  Barv,  Roger  Reeve,  of  Bury,  Robert  Reeve,  of  Bury,  Alice,  da.  of  William  Andrews,  gent.,  Clement  Reeve,  3d 
son  and  heir,  mar.  and  gent.,  2d  son,  mar.  and  gent.,  4th  son.  Will  I  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  by  Etheldreda,  son. 
had  issue.  had  issue.  Arch.  Sudb.,  1615.  |  dau.  and  eoh.  of  Edward  Cowley. 

William,  5th  son. 


1.  Edward  Reeve, =F 
son  and  heir,  1612 
Camden’ 8  Visita¬ 
tion  of  Suffolk. 

I - 


T 


X 


2.  Edmund  Reeve,  of  St.  Law- ^Elizabeth,  da.  of  . 


T 


rence’s  parish,  Ipswich.  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.,  9  April  1644;  had 
many  children  who  died  young. 


Robert 

Reeve, 

living 

1672. 


n - 

Elizabeth,  bapt.  at 
St.  Lawrence,  Ips¬ 
wich,  1619. 


n - 

Robert,  bapt.  at 
St.  Lawrence, 
Ipswich,  1624. 


Goodridge,  of  Bury. 
Hurl.  MS.,  1560.  Good¬ 
rich. 


3.  Roger  Reeve,  of  =¥=  Deborah,  da.  of 


London.  Will, 
P.C.C.  154  Eure, 
1672. 


''k 


Leon  ar  d  H  anck  s 
of  Clerkenwell, 
1st  wife. 


4.  John1 
Reeve, 
living 
1615. 


Julian 

Gough 


r~i - 

Roger,  bapt.  at 
St.  Lawrence, 
Ipswich,  1635. 


Martha,  bapt.  1620.  Mary,  bapt.  1634.  Sarah,  died  1623. 


Thomas  Reeve,  bapt.  at=f=  Mary  Cope,  als.  Reeve, 
St.  Lawrence,  Ipswich,  relict  and  executrix, 

1 637.  Admon.  Arch.  Suff. 

1674,  to  relict  and  John 
Reeve. 


1674  ;  then  wife  of 
Richard  Cope  of  Lou¬ 
don. 


William, 
bapt.  at  St. 
Lawrence, 
Ipswich, 
1638. 


John  Reeve  of  Ipswich.  Will,  Arch.  Stiff.,  26  June  1701  ;=j=Mary,  sister  of  Barnabas  Burrough,  of  Yarmouth,  who  left  her  his  lands  in 


had  messuages  in  St.  Stephen’s  and  St.  Lawrence’s  parishes, 
and  in  Newmarket. 


Kelvedon,  in  Will  P.C.C.  407,  Ruthen,  1650;  devisee  of  Thomas  Burrough, 
of  Ipswich,  in  his  will,  P.C.C.  41  Mico. 


I - — - 1 - 1 - - - 1 - 1 

Elizabeth  Brere-=j=  Rev.  Thomas  Reeve.  Rector — Mary,  sister  of — Robert  Cole,  Martha  Reeve  of  Anne  Reeve,  ob.  Mary,  mar.  ... 


wood,  1st  wife  ; 
marriage  settle¬ 
ment,  1693 ;  born 
1669,  died  1729. 


of  Stonham  Aspall,  1703,  Wright  Turner,  lsthusb.,bur. 
and  St.  Mary,  Stoke,  Ips-  2d  wife.  Her  in  St.  Clem- 
wich  ;  born  1668,  ob.  1745.  Will,  P.C.C.  293  ent’s  Church, 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  N.,  1745.  Bedford,  1732.  Ipswich. 

M.I.  in  Stoke  Church. 


Ipswich,  ob.  s.p.  s.p.  Will,  Arch.  Grimwood; 

Will,  Arch.  Suff  ,  Suff.,  pr.  22  Feb.  had  son  John, 

Feb.  17§§.  To  bo  1725.  To  be  bur.  and  a  dau. 

bur.  in  St  Law-  in  St.  Lawrence’s  Elizth.,  w.  of 

rence’s  Church.  Church.  John  Osborne. 


Rev.  William  Reeve,  Rector; 
"l  Freston  and  P.C.  of  St. 
Nicholas,  Ipswich.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  1755. 


: Hannah,  da.  of 
William  Smyth- 
ies, Goldsmith  to 
King  George  1. 


John  Reeve,  devisee 
of  his  sister  Maria 
Reeve,  1778 ;  had  a 
son  and  daughter. 


Thomas 
Reeve, 
youngest 
son  in 
1730. 


Samuel  Reeve, eldest'sou, 
1755.  Vice-Admiral  of 
the  White.  Died  at  Ips¬ 
wich,  5th  May  1803. 
Will  P.C.C.  575  Harriot, 
15  July  1801. 


1 - 

Richard 
Reeve, 
dead  in 
1801. 


Elizabeth  Reeve. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff., 
1  Feb.  1776;  ob. 
s.p. 


Maria  Reeve,  ob.  s.p. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  11 
Jan.  1778;  names  the 
children  of  her  bro¬ 
ther,  John  Reeve. 


Jane  Reeve,  ob. 
s.p.  Will,  Arch. 
Suff.,  1738; 
prob.  29  June 
1774. 


Rev.Thomas  Reeve,  Rector 
of  Brockley,  Suffolk,  and 
Master  of  the  Grammar 
School  at  Bungay.  Execu¬ 
tor  to  his  brother  Samuel 
Reeve,  1803. 

_ . _ _ _ ! _ l 


Sophia,  only  da.  of  Jane 
the  Rev.  Ambrose  Reeve. 
UvedaleJ  Rector  of  — 
Barking.  Died  1  Sarah 
Feb.  1 851,  aged  87.  Reeve. 


T 


Clara  Reeve.  Author  of 
the  Old  English  Baron, 
etc.  Born  1725;  died 
1803,  aged  78,  s.p.  Life 
in  Diet.  National  Biog¬ 
raphy. 


r~i 

Lucia,  wife  of 
Aaron  Tozer, Esq. 

Hannah,  wife  of 
Fredk.  Charles 
Reinhold. 


Rev.  Samuel  Reeve,  mar.  at  Milverstone,  co.  Somerset,  1810,  nephew  and  devisee^ Eliza  Webber,  of  St.  James’ 
of  the  Vice-Admiral  in  1801.  Died  at  Walton  20  Sept.  1830,  aged  43.  [  Street,  London. 


i 

John  Colpovs  Reeve,  mar.  Oct.  1840=  Henrietta  Charlotte,  yst.  da.  of  Nicholas 
at  Neath,  Glamorgan.  Hicks,  Esq.,  of  Stone,  Gloucester. 


Wcnttoortli  of  ^>omcrlepton. 


Jlrmorial  gearings. 

The  Wentworths  of  Somerleyton  were  not  a  branch  of  the  family  so  long  seated  at 
Wentworth  Woodhouse  in  Yorkshire,  but  may  have  derived  their  name  from  the  much  nearer 
village  of  Wentworth,  in  Cambridgeshire.  The  Arms  granted  them  by  Robert  Cooke,  Clarencieux, 
on  the  11th  of  October  1576  (Harl.  MS.  1820,  fo.  2) — Azure,  a  saltire  Ermine,  between  four 
eagles  displayed  Or — and  the  Crest — a  leopard  sejant  Ermine,  ducally  gorged  and  lined  Or — 
were  perhaps  designed  by  that  astute  herald  to  emphasise  the  non-relationship  of  the  two 
families.  Yet,  strange  to  say,  they  became  connected,  not  many  years  later,  by  the  marriage 
of  Margaret  Wentworth  of  Somerleyton,  a  sister  of  Sir  John,  with  Thomas  Wentworth  of 
Lincoln’s  Inn,  grandson  of  Peter  Wentworth  of  Lillingstone  Darrell,  M.P.  for  Tamworth,  a  well- 
known  member  of  the  Yorkshire  house.  The  Wentworth  Genealogy,  by  John  Wentworth,  LL.D 
Boston,  U.S.A.,  1878,  vol.  i,  30. 


SHill  of  Thomas  (ilLcniLuovtli,  1&3S. 


Thomas  Wentworth  of  Ipswich,  joyner,  this  16Ul  day  of  April  in  the  4th  and  5th  years 
of  Philip  and  Mary,  1558.  To  be  buried  in  the  churchyard  of  Sk  Margaret’s,  Ipswich.  1 
‘bequeath  my  turner’s  tools  to  Thomas  Wentworth,  my  sonne.  To  John  Wentworth,  my  sonne, 
at  his  age  of  eighteen  years.  To  Jaft’erye  Wentworth,  my  sonne,  at  his  age  of  twenty  one 
years.  To  Ane  and  Johan  my  daughters.  To  Valentine  Wentworth,  my  sonne,  when  twenty 
one.  To  Elyn,  my  daughter,  at  her  age  of  eighteen  years.  Valentine  and  Elyn,  my  children 
by  Margerye  my  wife.  Said  Margerye  to  be  my  sole  executrix.  This  will  was  proved  in  the 
same  year  by  Margery  Wentworth,  the  widow  and  executrix. 

Arch.  Suff.  Will  Book,  1557  9,  fo.  387  b. 


Margery  Wentworth  the  widow,  who  had  subsequently  married  Thomas  Whitman  of 
Ipswich,  made  her  will  (Arch.  Suff.)  12th  Dec.  1596,  leaving  her  bedstead,  “now  beinge  uppon 
the  chamber  over  the  hall  where  1  dwell,”  to  Valentine  Wentworth  her  son;  and  to  Joane 
Wentworth,  daughter  of  her  said  son  Valentine,  “one  selluer  spoone  of  the  nomber  of  thoese  wch 
were  my  husband  Wentworths.”  She  also  names  Margery  her  daughter,  wife  of  Stephen 
Debenham ;  Jeffry  e  Wentworth  her  son;  Thomas,  one  of  the  sons  of  her  son  Charles  Whitman;, 
her  goddaughter  Joane  Reve,  and  many  others.  The  will  was  proved  12th  October  1598  by 
Valentine  Wentworth  her  son  and  executor. 


D 


18 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


<®ill  of  John  cHcnttoovth,  1618. 

The  eight  day  of  September,  1618,  T  John  Wentworth  of  Somerleton,  eo.  Suff.,  Esq., 
make  and  declare  this  my  last  testamente.  I  bequeathe  my  soule  vnto  Almightie  god,  hopeinge 
to  he  forgiven  me  all  mv  synnes  through  the  merrittes,  mercy  and  passion  of  our  redemer, 
Jesus  Christ.  I  give  the  somes  of  tenne  poundes  to  the  Churchwarden  of  Somerleton,  and  of 
live  poundes  to  the  Churchwardens  of  Ask’oie,  Hopton,  Norton,  Heringflett,  and  of  Wheatacre 
burroughs  in  the  countie  of  Norff:  for  the  time  beinge,  [who]  shall  distribute  the  increase 

thereof  amongest  the  most  poore  and  indigent  persons  of  the  said  severall  parishes.  T  doe  giue 
vnto  my  neece,  Elizabeth  Reeve,  my  sister  Reeve’s  daughter,  whoe  now  dwelleth  with  me,  £100, 
and  two  yeares  after  my  decease  one  other  hundreth  poundes.  To  every  of  the  children  of 
Joane,  one  of  the  daughters  of  my  sister  Reve,  deceased,  nowe  the  wife  of  Thomas  Botie,  £20, 
and  to  every  the  children  of  Elizabeth,  one  other  daughter  of  my  late  sister  Reve,  now  married 

to  Robert  Clodd,  £20.  Vnto  Elizabeth  Wenteworth,  daughter  of  Jeffery  Wentworth  my  brother, 

£50,  and  to  ...  ,  one  other  daughter  of  the  said  Jeffery,  now  married  vnto  one  .  .  .  ,  a 
weaver,  £20.  Vnto  my  cozen  Corrie,  now  dwelling  with  me,  five  markes.  Vnto  my  most  true 
Sir  Edward  Cooke,  Knighte,  Lord  Cheife  Justies  of  the  Kinges  Bench,  my  worthy,  true,  and 
faithfull  freinde,  twentie  vnites  of  gould  called  Jacobins,  and  vnto  my  assured  and  good  freind 
Thomas  Richardsonn,  serieant  of  the  lawe,  tenne  Jacobines,  humblie  entreatinge  them  to  be 
aydinge  my  sontie,  Sir  John  Wentworth,  Knight,  Jeffery  Wentworth  my  .brother,  and  John 

Wentworth,  sonne  of  the  said  Jeffery,  in  such  causes  as  they  shall  desire  counsells  and  advises 
in.  All  the  residue  of  my  goodes  I  bequeath  vnto  ray  said  sonne,  Sir  John  Wentworth,  whome 
I  doe  ordaine  my  sole  executor.  I  doe  desire  my  Cozen,  Mr  Thomas  Bedingfeild  of  Darsham, 
esquire,  and  my  brother  in  lawe,  Mr  William  Southwell,  gentlemen,  to  be  supervisors.  As 
concerning  my  mannors,  lands  anil  tenementes  I  have  by  my  writinge  tripartite  indented, 
bearinge  date  10th  Oct.  1677,  assured  the  same  in  three  sheetes  of  paper  of  myne  owne  hand 
writinge,  and  filed  together  at  the  heade  with  a  greene  silke  lace,  and  sealed  with  my  seale  of  Arraes 
Probatum  septimo  die  Maii,  1619,  Juramento  Dhi  Johannis  Wentworth,  militis,  filij  dci 
defuncti  et  executoris.  P.C.C.  51  Parker. 


(Mill  of  J)enrg  gieeb e,  clerk,  1638. 

Henry  Reeve  of  Bradwell,  co.  Suffolk,  clerke,  the  first  day  of  April!,  1 638,  bequeaths 

legacies  to  Charles  Clodd,  his  sister’s  son;  Margaret  Reeve,  daughter  of  his  brother  John  Reeve, 
deceased ;  to  his  cousens  Susan  it  Elizabeth  Reeve,  daughters  of  Robert  Reeve,  deceased  ;  to 
Joane  Reeve  another  daughter,  now  wife  to  Pomfrey ;  to  his  cousin  John  Reeve,  son  of  said 
Robert  Reeve ;  to  his  friends  Sr  John  Wentworth,  Lady  Ann  Wentworth  and  Mrs  Mary  Cooke, 
widow.  He  names  his  cousin  John  Wentworth,  son  of  Jeffery  Wentworth,  deceased.  To 
Elizabeth,  his  wife,  he  leaves  his  lands  in  Kessingland  in  Suffolk.  He  names  the  three  children 

of  his  sister  Elizabeth  ;  the  two  sons  of  his  brother  John  Reve,  deceased ;  his  sister  Joane 

Boottie  and  her  children ;  his  brother  Benjamin  Stygold  and  his  daughter  Rebecca  Stygold ;  his 
mother  Rebecca  Stygold,  widow;  Christopher  Stygold  and  his  wife;  and  his  cousin  John  Boottie. 
He  leaves  his  lands  in  Bradwell  to  his  wife,  whom  he  names  his  executrix.  The  will  was 
proved  20th  April  1638  by  Elizabeth,  his  relict. 

Norwich  Consistory,  Wills,  1638 — 1639,  No.  21. 


WENTWORTH  OF  SOMERLEYTOX. 


19 


cHill  of  John  SBcnttoorth,  1664. 

This  is  the  last  will  of  me  John  Wentworth  of  Somerleyton  in  the  County  of  Suff.,  Esq. 
Vpon  the  marriage  agreement  by  me  made,  betweene  me  and  Dorothy,  my  now  wife,  and  Sir 
Thomas  Leventhorpe  of  Shingle  Hall,  co.  Hertford,  Baronett,  brother  of  the  said  Dorothy,  and 
James  Altham  of  Markes  Hall,  co.  Essex,  Esq.  (now  Sir  James  Altham,  Knight  of  the  Bathe),, 
and  Isaac  Appleton  of  little  Waldingfield,  co.  Suffolke,  Esq.,  since  deceased,  trustees  of  the  said 
Dorothy,  it  was  agreed  in  consideration  of  the  .±"2,000  which  T  was  then  to  have  with  the  said 
Dorothy,  and  have  since  receiued,  I  should  purchase  manors,  landes  and  tenementes,  which  with 
the  lands  and  tenements  in  Suffield  and  Roughton  in  Norfolk,  by  me  then  settled  upon  her, 

should  amount  to  the  cleare  yearely  value  of  £300,  to  bee  settled  vpon  her  during  the  terme 

of  her  naturall  life,  with  remainder  to  the  lieires  of  our  bodies.  I  have  not  yet  purchased  any 
manors,  etc.  The  said  £2,000  is  as  yet  unreceaved  by  me.  It  is  my  will  that  the  said  Sir 
Thomas  Leventhorpe  and  Sir  James  Altham  shall  receave  it  from  such  persons  as  the  same  is 
now  oweing,  and  so  much  out  of  my  personal]  estate  as,  together  with  the  said  £2,000,  shall 
purchase  land,  etc.,  of  the  yearly  value  of  £300,  to  the  use  of  the  said  Dorothy  my  deare 
wife.  The  lands  to  bee  purchased  shall,  after  the  death  of  the  said  Dorothy,  remayne  vnto 
Mary  my  only  child  and  her  heires  for  ever.  The  rest  of  my  estate  to  be  turned  into  ready  money 
by  the  said  Sir  Thomas  Leventhorpe,  Sir  James.  Altham  and  my  deare  wife  Dorothy,  who  I 
make  executors  of  this  will.  They  are  to  pay  Elizabeth  Dawson,  my  sister,  £20  per  annum 
dureing  her  life ;  and  the  residue  of  the  proceeds  to  be  paid  vnto  my  wife  for  the  maintenance 
tk  education  of  my  daughter.  After  my  said  daughter  shall  attaine  her  age  of  eighteene  yeares 

(shee  disposeing  her  selfe  with  the  approbation  of  her  mother  and  said  trustee),  the  remainder 

to  be  paid  vnto  her  for  her  advancement  in  marriage.  To  Sir  Thomas  Leventhorpe  and  Sir 
James  Atham,  the  sommes  of  tenne  poundes  a  peece,  to  buy  each  of  them  a  ringe  in 
remembrance  of  mee.  This  14th  day  of  December,  1664. 

Probation  vicesimo  die  Aprilis,  1666,  juramentis  executoruni  in  hujusmodi  testaments 
nominat.  P.C.C.  65  Mico. 


Mill  of  gtanc  Jlnna  Menttoortli,  1663. 

1  Dame  Anna  Wentworth  of  Somer  Leyton  in  the  County  of  Suffolke,  widdow,  mindfull 
that  the  frailty  of  our  Earthly  Tabernacles  is  such  that  it  often  falls  before  we  perceive  the 
approaches  of  our  change,  do  make  this  my  last  will.  I  comend  my  soule  into  the  hands  of 
my  good  God,  hopeing  assuredly  of  salvation  by  ffaith  in  the  blood  of  my  blessed  Saviour. 
My  body  I  doe  appoint  to  be  buried  in  Somerleyton  Church  by  my  late  husband  Sr  John 
Wentworth.  I  giue  vnto  my  deare  brother  Sr  Thomas  Soaine,  £2,000 ;  vnto  my  deare  sister 
the  Lady  Jane  Barnardiston,  £500  and  my  Chayne  of  Pearl e ;  vnto  my  nephews  John  Soame, 
Barnaul  Soame,  Bartholomew  Soame  and  Edmund  Soame,  the  sons  of  my  brother  Sr  William 
Soaine,  £50  a  peice ;  to  my  niece  the  Lady  Loe,  daughter  of  my  brother  Sr  Stephen  Soame, 
£50:  to  Mary  Soame,  daughter  of  the  said  Sr  Stephen,  £50  and  my  Tortise  Cabinett  '  to  her 
sisters,  Martha  Soame  and  Jane  Soame,  £50  a  peece;  to  my  neece  the  Lady  Abdv,  daughter 

D2 


20 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


of  Sr  Thomas  Soame,  £50;  vnto  my  neece  Mrs  Elizabeth  Garneis,  the  relict  of  John  Oarneis, 
Esq.,  and  daughter  of  said  Sr  Thomas  Soame,  £50;  vnto  Elizabeth  Garneis,  daughter  of  said 
Elizabeth,  £500  at  her  age  of  xxi  yeares.  To  the  rest  of  the  children  of  Elizabeth  Garneis, 
my  neece,  £100  a  peece.  To  my  neece  Mary  Soame,  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas,  £500  at  her  day 
of  marriage.  Vnto  my  nephew  Sr  Phillipp  Parker  th’elder,  £50  ;  and  to  my  nephew  Henry 
Parker,  Esq.,  the  like  sum.  Vnto  Sr  Phillipp  Parker  the  younger,  Barronett,  sonne  of  the  said 
Sr  Phillipp  th’elder,  £50.  Vnto  Nathaniell  Parker,  Esq.,  my  nephew,  £1,000.  Vnto  my  neece 
Gulden,  daughter  of  Sr  Calthrop  Parker,  £60.  To  my  nephew  Stephen  Anderson,  sonne  of 
Sr  Francis  Anderson,  £50.  Vnto  Sr  Thomas  Barnardiston,  Barronett,  Sr  Samuel  Barnardiston, 
Baronett,  Nathaniell  Barnardiston,  Pellitia  Barnardiston  and  Arthur  Barnardiston,  Esquires,  sonnes 
of  Sr  Nathaniell  Barnardiston.  £50  a  peice.  Vnto  my  nieee  the  Lady  Anna  Rolte,  my  niece 
the  Lady  Bloyse,  my  cosen  Nicholas  Herrick,  my  cosen  Hall  and  her  sister  Huke.  Mr  Thomas 
Soame,  sonne  of  Mr  John  Soame  of  Little  Bradley  my  kinsman,  married  the  onely  daughter  of 
Mr  Clement  Kitchingman.  Vnto  Mr  John  Brinsley,  late  Minister  of  God’s  word  in  Great 
Yarmouth,  £10.  Bequests  to  divers  inhabitants  of  Somerleyton,  Herringfleet  and  Whettacre  Burgh. 
My  late  most  Honor(1  ffather  Sr  Stephen  Soame  of  London,  Knt,  founded  one  Schoole  house  and 
•one  Aimes  house  in  Little  Thurloe  ;  T  give  the  yearly  sume  of  £10  vnto  the  Master  and  the 
vsher  of  the  said  schoole.  All  the  residue  of  my  goodes  T  giue  vnto  my  welbeloued  nephews, 
William  Soame,  Esq.,  Peter  Soame  of  Haydon,  Esq.,  Samuel  Soame,  Esq.,  and  Nathaniell  Parker, 
Esq.,  and  do  make  them  my  executors.  My  will  is  that  they  doe  keepe  a  Convenient  Table 
for  themselves,  their  servants  and  my  servants,  for  three  months  after  my  decease.  Dated 
11th  January  1663.  Probatum  xiij°  die  Maij  1664,  juramentis  executorum. 

P.C.C.  60  Bruce. 


^estimonn  of  ^tlatthins  (Earthier,  circa  1656. 

In  Somerley  towne  in  y®  time  of  King  Charles  liued  Sr  John  Wentworth,  Kn‘;  he  was 
sonne  of  John  Wentworth,  Esqr,  who  was  high  sheriffe  of  Suff:  about  },e  yeare  1608.  The 
name  of  them  is  said  antiently  to  haue  been  written  Quamford.  This  John  rose  up  from  but 

a  meane  estate.  He  married  .  .  .  daughter  of  Robert  Southwell  of  Barham,  Esqr. 

S*  John  Wentworth,  Knt,  his  sonne,  was  high  sherriffe  of  Suff:  about  ye  yeare  1619. 
He  married  Anne  y®  daughter  of  Sir  Stephen  Soame  of  Thirlow,  Knb  Haueing  no  child,  he 
bestowed  a  great  deale  of  cost  in  water workes,  walkes,  woods,  and  other  delights.  He  left  one 
of  y®  most  delightful!  dwellings  in  England,  as  they  say  that  haue  seen  many,  to  his  Lady 

for  life,  and  after  her  decease  to  John  Garneys  or  Garnish,  his  nephew.  His  estate  between 
2000'  or  30001  p  annum.  He  brought  good  preachers  into  y®  Island  of  Louingland,  and  there 
was  cheife  Patron  of  Religion  ifc  honestye  in  his  time.  He  shewed  a  very  free  it  noble 

disposition  in  his  ....  wheresoeaeuer  I  saw  him. 

Wentworth  B,  a  saltire  ermine  between  iiij  spld  eagles  arg. 

Add.  MS.  15,520,  the  so-called  Ryece  MS. 


WENTWORTH  OF  SOMERLEYTON 


21 


SMfntUmtl)  ^rtntjirr,  ?I?arl.  ffl&.  1820,  fo.  37b. 

Thom :  Wentworth  of  Ipswich  in  Stiff:  mar.  Marqarett  d :  of  Conper  of  Stiff:  had  issue 

John  sonne  <t  h : 

John  Wenteworth  of  Darsham  in  Stiff:  Esqr  sontie  <£  h :  of  Thom :  mar.  Elizabeth  d :  of 
John  Southwell  of  Barom  hall  in  Stiff:  <(:  had  issue  Sr  John,  sonne  <fc  h:  Fortnnata  obijt  sine 
pie,  Eliz :  mar.  to  Charles  Garnishe  of  boyland  in  Norff:  Gent.,  Manja/rett  mar:  to  Will’m 
Freeston  sonne  &  h:  of  Richard  Freeston  of  Mendham  in  Suff.  Esqr,  Mary  vnmar : 

Sr  John  Went:  of  Somerleyton  in  Suff:  K‘  sonne  <fc  h:  of  Jo:  mar:  Ann  d:  of 
Sr  Stephen  Somes  of  London  Kniqht  <L  hathe  no  issue,  1611 . 


^fbtgrrf,  OTrnttoortlj  of 


^omerlegton. 


Margaret,  da.  of= 
....  Cooper,  of 
Suffolk.  Camden. 

=Thomas  Wentworth,  of  Ipswich. = 
Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  16  April  1558, 
proved  the  same  year. 

=  Margerie,  2d  wife  and  executrix;  made=f=  Thomas  Whitman,  of  Ipswich. 

Will  as  Margerie  Whitman  12  Dec.  1596;  |  Will,  Arch.  Suff.  7  Feb.  1595, 
it  was  pi'oved  Arch.  Suff.  12  Oct.  1598.  ^proved  14  Feb.  following. 

r  ~  ~r 

r  m 

-r  -  - 1  1  1  1 

1.  Thomas 
Wentworth, 
eldest  son, 
1668. 


2.  John  Wentworth,  of=j=Elizabeth,  sister  to 


Darsham  and  after  of 
Somerleyton, Esq.;  High 
Sheriff  of  Suffolk.  Will, 
P.C.C.  51  Parker.  8  Sep. 
1618  ;  pr.  7  May  1619. 


John  Southwell,  of 
Barham  Hall.  Esq., 
who  made  Will,  20 
Oct.  1612,  P.C.C.  95 
Fenner. 


Elizabeth,  mar .  3.JefferyWent-=p... 

Beeve.  Her  son,  Henry  worth,  under 
lteeve,  of  Bradwell, 
clerk,  made  Will,  Cur. 

Ep.  Norw.,  1  Apr.1638. 


age  1558 ; nam¬ 
ed  1596  in  Mar- 
gerie  Whit¬ 
man’s  Will. 


L 


Sir  John  Went-=Anna.  da.  of 
worth,  of  Somer-  Sir  Stephen 
leyton,  Kt.  High  Soame,  Kt., 
Sheriff  of  Suffolk;  Alderman  of 
ob.  s.p.  Admon.  London; 
P.C.C.  1651  to  mar.  settle- 
relict.  meut  43  Eliz. 


Elizabeth,  mar. 
Charles  Gar- 
nevs,  of  Kenton 
Hall,  co.  Snff., 
Esq. ;  High  She¬ 
riff  of  Norfolk, 
who  ob.  1658. 

T 


T 


4.  Valentine  Went-  Anne, 
worth,  of  Ipswich. 

Will,  Cur.  Ep.  N.,  John. 
9  Sept.  1619.  Had 
da.JoanWentworth  Ellen, 
by  Frances  his  wife.  1558. 


Margaret,  mar.  1,  Wm. 
Freston,  of  Mendham, 
co.  Suff.,  Esq.,  and,  2, 
Thomas  Wentworth, 
grandson  of  Peter 
Wentworth,  M.P.,  of 
the  Yorkshire  family. 


Mary,  mar . 

Cooke;  made  Will 
as  Mary  Cooke,  of 
Somerleyton,  wo. 
22  Jan.  1647. 

Fortnnata,  ob.  s.p. 


John  Went¬ 
worth, ofSom- 
erleyton,  Esq. 
Will,  P.C.C. 
65  Mico,  14 
Dec.  1664,  pr. 
20  Apr.  1666. 


Anne,  da. of  William^John  Garneys,  of  Kenton  and=j=Elizabeth,  2d  wife,  da.  of  Sir 

Thomas  Soame,  Knt.,  niece 
and  devisee  of  Dame  Anna 
Wentworth,  1663.  Will,  P.C.C. 
236  Fagg,  1715. 


Rugge,  of  Feinting 
hant,  co.  Norfolk,  1st 
wife.  Garnet/ s  Pedi¬ 
gree,  Coll,  of  Arms, 
'iSOS. 


ThotnasGarneys, 
of  Boyland  Hall, 
son  and  heir;  sold 
Somerleyton, 
1672. 


Boyland  Hall ;  heir  to  his 
uncle  Sir  JohnWentworth;  ob. 
15  Dec.  1661.  See  vol.  i,  p.  191, 
Garneys  of  Kf.nton. 


- 1 — I - 

Elizabeth 
and  Anne, 
living  in 
1611. 
Camden. 


:  Dorothy, 
sister  to  Sir 
ThomasLe- 
venthorpe, 
of  Shingle, 
co.  Herts, 
Bart. 


Elizabeth, 
wife  of  . .  . 
Dawson  ; 
named 
1664in  her 
brother’s 
Will. 


.  .  .  us.  John  Cop¬ 
ping,  of  Wotton, 
co.  Norfolk.  Had 
son  Charles  Cop¬ 
ping,  1643. 


Mary 

Wentworth, 
only  child  ; 
under  age 
1664. 


Anne  Garneys, 
ob.  s.p.  29  Mar. 
1668.  M.l.  in 
Mornington 
Church. 


Wentworth  Garneys, - 
of  Boyland  Hall,  co. 
Norff.,  Esq.,  ob.  s.p. 
Will  25  Mar.  1684, 
probt.  17  Feb.  1712. 


1  T 

-Anne,  1st  wife,  da.  of  Elizabeth 
Sir  Charles  Gawdy,  and  Sus- 
Crowe’s  Hall,  co.  Suf-  anna,  died 
folk,  Kt.;  died  7  Sept,  unmar. 
1681. 


- 1 - 

Mary,  mar.  1,  Wm. 
Shipman  ;  2,  Sir 

Wm.  Dutton  Colt, 
Kt.  See  ped.  vol.  i 
S.M.F.,  p.  191. 


I  I 

Margaret,  m.  Sir 
Wm.  Gostlin,  Kt. 

Martha,  m.  Robert 
Raworth,  Esq. 


'Intirrtos  of  %t.  iparnells 

tit  J&ttrt>. 


JUmorial  gearings. 

The  Arms  of  Andrews  of  London  and  St.  Edmundsbury,  as  copied  by  Robert  Mundy 
from  the  Visitations  of  Northampton  made  by  Harvey,  Vincent  and  Camden  ( //nil.  MS.  155 A, 
fol.  212 — 217b),  were  Quarterly  of  nine: — 

1,  Andrew — Gules,  a  saltire  Or,  surmounted  of  another  Vert. 

2,  Tokett — Argent  a  chevron  between  three  demi  crosses  Gules. 

3,  Thompson —  Sable,  a  fret  Argent ;  on  a  chief  Or  three  escallops  of  the  first. 

4,  Witney — Vert,  a  cross  engrailed  Argent. 

5,  Witney — Chequy  Argent  and  Sable,  a  canton  Ermine. 

6,  Berbeck — Sable,  on  a  chief  Or,  three  mascles  of  the  first. 

7,  Clavell — Azure,  a  chevron  between  three  cocks’  heads  erased  Argent. 

8,  Mackkrnes-  -Sable,  a  chevron  Argent  between  three  mullets  of  six  points  Or. 

9,  Colly  vel  Cowley — Argent,  on  a  chevron  Sable,  three  leopards’  heads  Or. 

Crest,  a  blackamoor’s  head  in  profile,  couped  at  the  shoulder  proper ;  in  the  ear  a  pendant. 


Mill  of  Cbtoari  (Eotulcn,  1570* 

In  the  yere  of  or  lorde  god  m'vdxx  I  Edward  Cowley  make  this  my  last  will.  I 
bequeath  my  soule  to  the  mercy  of  God  in  the  bloud  cfc  rnerites  of  Christ ;  my  body  to  be 
buried  in  the  church  of  Seint  Leonarde’s  [of  the  City  of  London.  See  Act  Book,~\  I  give  to 
my  mother,  Johan  Cowley,  my  right  and  title  of  one  house  or  mansion,  comonlie  knowen  and 
called  by  the  name  of  S*  Parnelle’s  in  Suffolke,  whom  also  I  make  my  sole  executrix.  I  giue 
to  my  foure  sisters  maried  foure  Ringes,  and  to  euy  of  my  brothers  in  law  a  ringe.  To  my 
two  sisters  vnmaried,  to  eche  foure  poundes  a  pece.  To  my  mother,  Johan  Cowley,  and  her 
heires  one  house  wl  the  lande,  being  at  Lanham  in  the  Countie  of  Suff.  Item,  for  foure 
sonday  sermons  afore  none  next  ensuing  my  entremet,  xxs.  The  rest  of  my  goods  I  giue  to 
my  deare  mother.  By  me,  Edward  Cowley;  p  me  Joliem  Heyton,  clicm,  rectorem  [of  S* 
Leonard  Eastcheape,  London],  By  me,  Wiftm  Andrewes.  Probatum  apud  London  viii°  die 
Octobris  1571,  juramento  Johanne  Cowley,  executricis. 


P.C.C.  38  Holney. 


ANDREWS  OF  ST.  PARNELLS  IN  BURY. 


23 


Inquisition  post  mortem  Edri  Cooley  capt.  3  Dec.  14  Eliz.  160.  ob  2  Oct.  vlt.  Johanna 
vx  Tho :  Gillett,  Osias  vx  Tho :  Boyton,  Audria  vx  Wm  Andrewes,  Mar  vx  Lodowici  Sampson, 
Marth  Cooley  A  Sarah  Cooley  sunt  sorores  A  her,  et  fuer  pleh  etatis. 

S1  Edmond’s  Bury,  extra  port  austral  Capell  mes  sive  Mancon  voc  Sl  Parnell,  &c. 

Yiginti  acr  ter  ten  de  R.  in  capite  p.  40  feod  mil. 

Palmer’s  Index,  Public  Record  Office,  vol.  100. 

Finalis  Concordia  inter  Johem  Hattam  A  Hugonem  Andrew  querentes,  et  Wittm  Andrewe 
A  Etheldredam  vxem  eius,  Thomam  Gillett  A  Johanue  vxem  eius,  Lodovicum  Sampson  it 
Mariam  vxem  eius,  Thomam  Nowell  ais  Reve  it  Martham  vxem  eius,  A  Saram  Cowley,  deforc. 
de  unam  mesuag,  sex  toftis,  vno  Columbar,  Ac.,  in  Bury  Sci  Edi,  Nolton,  Lacford,  Whepsted, 
Whelstlee,  Rushbrook  A  Mildenhall,  Necnon  de  Aduocacoe  Capelle  voc  Sfc  Parnells  extr  portam 
australem  de  Bury  Sci  Edi.  Centil  libras,  sterlingor. 

Notes  of  Fines,  Mich  19  A  20  ah  Elizabethoe. 


iJSrintjrrr,  Sntoretos  of  0t.  ^ainclb 

Richard  Andrew  of  Sowbridge',  Kisby^P  Catherin,  d.  iLeire 


1.  John — Jane,  d.  of 
Andrew.  .  .  .  Buhhii. 


Vpton  in  Com.  Warwick 


of  John  Berbeck. 


I 

2.  Thomas  Andrew  enicyed  all  his  brother’s  lands  Sf  bought  the  mannor  of^Jowne,  d.  8)'  he  ire 
Charwelton  in  Com  Northton.  __  I  of  Ric.  Clavell. 


Kmme,  d.-pl, 
of  .  .  . 
Knight- 

ley. 


Thomas  =p Elizabeth ,  d.  of  Sr 


Andrew 
of  Char¬ 
welton. 


ThomasPoultney  of 
Misterton  in  Com 
Lester,  2  wife. 


4.  Anthony  An-==  .  .  ,  d.  of  Rafe 
drews,  a  pen-  Collett,  brother 
cioner  called  to  Joint  Collett, 
Andrew  White-  deunes  of  Patties, 
ffoote. 


T 


L 


3.  Edward  Andrews^ Catherin, 


of  Harleston  in 
Com  Northton, 
H.  8. 


d.  8f  heire 
of  Richard 
Belgraue. 


- 1 

5.  James 
Andrews. 


Thomas  A  ndrew  of  Charwelton.^  Ann,  d.  of  Robert  Newport  of  Stendom  in  Com  Hertford.  Willm. 


L, 


Andrews.^ Jane,  d.  of  .  . 

|  Pace. 

_ _ _ I 


Catherin,  d.  8f  coheire  o/=f=I.  Sr  Thomas  Andrew^ Alary,  d.  of  John  Henadg  of  Towi 


JT 

Edward  Cave,  1  wife.  Ob.  |  of  Charwelton. 
18  of  August  1555.  j-. 


|  in  Com  Lincon,  2  ivife. 

4* 


Robert  Andrews^ Joyce,  d.  heire  of 
of  Coventry.  I  .  .  .  Makernes. 


I - 1 - - - - - 

1.  John.  2.  Hugh  Andrews,  Rector  of 
Heringswell, Suffolk ;  assessed 
for  First-Fruits  1578  ;  joined 
in  purchase  of  St.  Parnells  by 
Fine,  Mich.  19  A  20  Eliz. 


3.  Willm.  Andrews  of  London 
and  of  St.  Edmond’s  bury  in 
Com  Stiff. :  joined  in  sale  of 
St.  Parnells  to  Hugh  Andrews 
his  brother,  1578. 


r— 

Anne 

Andrews. 


T 


All  ice  vx.  Robert  Reeve  of  St. 
Edmonds  bury.  Mar.  lie. 
Arch. Sudb.  1586.  His  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  proved  1615. 
See  Reeve  of  Bury. 


i 

Suzan  Andrews,  mar.  Thonnis 
Hill;  mar.  lie.  Arch.  Sudb. 
11  Dec.  1588.  Robert  Reeve 
a  witness. 


■Audry,  d.  heire  of  Anthony 
Colly  vel  Cowley;  sister  &  co¬ 
heir  of  Edward  Cowley  of  St. 
Parnells  in  Bury,  who  made 
Will,  P.C.C.  36  Holney,  1570. 


- 1 - 

Blanch 

vx. 

Tho. 

Walsh. 


— n 

Anne. 


Jane. 


- 1 - 1 

Mary  Rebecca,  da.  of  Win.  Andrews 

Andrews.  of  Bury,  gent.;  bur.  at  Nowton 
1582. 


1.  John  Andrew. 


Abraham  Andrew. 


3.  Hack  Andrew. 


The  descents  in  the  above  pedigree  which  are  printed  in  italics  are  taken  from  tho  Visitations  of  Northampton 
made  by  Harvey  and  Camden  and  copied  by  Robert  Mundy.  Harl.  MS.  1553,  fol.  212 — 217  b. 

From  this  family  descended  Sir  Thomas  Andrews  of  Denton,  who  was  created  a  Baronet  in  1641,  and  bore 
•Gules,  a  saltire  Or  surmounted  of  another  Vert.  Burke’s  Extinct  Baronets. 

Hugh  Andrews  was  presented  to  Heringswell  by  the  Queen,  20th  Elizabeth  ;  one  of  his  sureties  being 
Ludovieus  Sampson  of  the  parish  of  St.  Leonard’s,  Eastcheap,  London. 


■Intirctos  of  J6urp. 


JUmorial  gearings. 

The  Arms  allowed  to  '1'homas  Andrews  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  at  the  Visitation  of  Suffolk 
in  1561,  were  Argent,  on  a  bend  engrailed  plain  cotised  Sable,  between  two  lions  rampant  of 
the  last,  three  mullets  of  the  field.  The  Crest :  A  turtle  dove  rising  proper,  holding  in  beak 
an  olive  branch  Vert,  fructed  Or.  Tn  the  non-official  sketch  which  accompanies  -the  pedigree  in 
Harl.  MS.  1103,  the  Crest  is  described  as  a  dove  with  wings  expanded  Azure,  holding  in  the 
beak  a  laurel  branch  Vert,  fructed  Or. 


SStill  of  Thomas  JLntivctuo,  1544. 

I,  Thomas  Andrewes  of  bury  saint  Edmunde  in  the  countie  of  Suff.  the  sixe  and  twentie 
daye  of  august  in  the  six  and  thirtie  yere  of  Kynge  Henry  the  eight,  make  this  my  testament 
and  Laste  Will.  I  bequethe  my  soule  to  almyghtie  god  and  my  body  to  the  earthe.  I  wyll 
that  my  executours  fynde  one  honest  prist  to  singe  and  praye  for  my  soule,  my  ffather’s  and 
my  mother’s  Soule  and  all  xpen  soules,  in  the  churche  of  Saint  James  by  the  space  of  one 
yere.  I  bequeth  to  Edmonde  Andrewes  my  sonne  fortie  poundes  when  he  shall  come  to  his 
full  age  of  xvii  yeres.  Also  I  bequethe  to  my  wiffe,  Emme  Andrewes  my  measuage  that  l 
dwell  in  in  bury  aforesaide,  and  other  my  measuages  in  the  townes  of  Burye  and  Exninge, 
or  elles  where  wHn  the  counties  of  Suff.  and  Cambridge,  durynge  her  lyff.  And  after  her 
decease  I  will  that  they  remayne  to  my  sonne  Thomas  Andrewes  and  his  heires  for  euer.  The 
residue  of  my  goodes  I  geue  vnto  my  executours,  whome  I  ordeyne  Emme  my  wiffe  and  Thomas 
Andrewes  my  sonne,  he  to  be  ruled  by  the  Supervisoure  of  this  will,  whom  I  ordeyne  my 
brother  in  lawe  Arthur  Hewar.  And  if  he  will  not  be  ruled  by  my  Supervisour,  than  I  will 
that  he  be  none  of  myne  executours.  Witnes  of  this  my  laste  Will,  Master  Peter  Bryncley, 
docter  in  dyvinyte,  John  Gerard  and  other.  Probatum  octauo  die  Aprilis,  1546,  Juramento 
Thome  Andrewes  procuratoris  Relicte  et  executricis  in  huioi  testamento  nominat. 

P.C.C.  7  Alen. 


Sllill  of  (Eitoari  Jjetoar,  1568. 

The  sixt  daie  of  Januarie,  1568,  1  Edward  Hewar,  Citezen  &  Drap  of  London,  doe 

ordeine  this  my  last  will.  1  giue  to  Thomas  Andrewes  of  Burye  Sl  Edmond,  gent.,  tenne 

poundes;  to  his  brother  Edmond  Andrews  other  tenne  poundes.  I  ordeine  Johan  my  wief  sole 
executrix  of  this  will.  My  brother  in  lawe  Richard  Harper,  Esquier,  one  of  the  Queue’s  Mate® 
Justice  of  the  bench  at  Westmr,  to  be  overseer,  and  I  giue  him  for  his  paines  therin  six 

Aungelles,  value  t’.re  poundes.  I  bequeath  to  the  said  Johan  my  wief  all  my  mesuages  and 

landes  in  the  Citie  of  London  during  her  lief ;  and  after  [her]  deathe  to  the  said  Thoms 


ANDREWS  OF  BURY. 


25 


Andrewes ;  he  to  giue  of  the  yssues  and  proffittes  rysing  [therefrom]  one  hundreth  poundes  to 
Jane,  daughter  of  Clement  Tussard  and  Jane  my  daughter,  late  [his]  wief.  For  default  of  heire 
male  [to  said  Clement  Tussard]  I  bequeath  said  messuages  to  said  Thomas  Andrewes  and  the 

heires  males  of  his  bodie,  and  for  default  of  suche,  to  the  saied  Edmond  Andrewes  and  the 

heires  males  of  his  bodie.  And  for  default  of  suche,  I  giue  said  messuages,  landes  and 
tenementes,  to  ye  gouernors  of  the  free  gramer  schoole  of  King  Edward  the  vith  in  Burie  Sk 
Edmond  and  to  their  successors,  ymediately  after  the  saied  Edward  Tussard,  Thomas  Andrewes 
and  Edmond  Andrewes  shall  depte  ffrom  their  naturall  lives  without  yssue  male.  Said  governors 
and  their  successours  so  fynde  and  mainteigne  with  the  ysseues  and  proffites,  fouer  schollers 

within  the  vnyversitie  of  Oxford  or  Cambridge  as  shalbe  founde  moste  apte  to  lerninge ;  one 
of  saied  schollers  to  have  yerlie  for  his  stipend  sixe  poundes  thirtene  shillinges  cfc  fouer  pence. 
Saied  schollers  shall  chieflie  stoudie  in  phissicke  and  the  Civill  lawe  after  they  haue  proceded 
in  the  knowledge  of  the  Latin  and  Greke  tonge.  Tn  witnes  wherof  I  liaue  sett  my  seale  the 

daye  and  yere  first  abouesayed. 

In  a  codicil,  dated  the  8th  Feb.  1572,  the  testator  wills  two  tenementes  in  S*  Botulphe’s 
Lane  to  the  parson  and  churchwardens  of  Sk  George  nigh  Eastcheap,  London,  for  the  necessary 
repairs  of  their  parish  church. 

Probatuin  xvii0  die  Februarii,  1573,  Johanne  Andrewes  retce. 

P.C.C.  8  Martyn. 


Cilill  of  "alto mas  JlntircLus,  1535. 

I  Thomas  Andrews  of  Bury  Saincte  Edmunde,  gentleman,  doe  make  this  my  last  will. 
My  body  to  be  buried  wthout  any  sugstitic?  or  sumptuous  pompe  in  the  churche  yarde  nighe 
vnto  the  southe  syde  of  Sl  James  Churche,  wheare  myne  auncestors  lye;  not  for  that  I  thincke 
any  place  better  than  other,  but  to  declare  my  hope  that  they  and  I  shall  ryse  together  in 
the  last  day  to  lyfe  everlastinge.  I  bequeathe  to  my  welbelouid  wief  all  my  messuages,  landes 
and  tenementes  in  the  Countie  of  Sufff  dureinge  the  terme  of  her  lyfe.  And  for  default  of 
yssue  of  my  body,  the  remainder  thereof  to  my  brother  Edmond  Andrews,  and  the  heirs  of 
his  body.  And  for  default  of  such,  the  remainder  thereof  to  the  gounors  of  the  revenues  of 

the  free  Gramer  Schole  of  Kinge  Edwarde  the  sixt  in  Bury  S‘  Edmunds  and  their  successors 

and  with  the  yearly  rent  (the  repacions  and  other  charges  defraied  and  paide)  to  bestowe  ye 

residue  for  the  finding  of  fower  scholers  wthin  the  Vniuersitie  of  Cambridge  for  eii,  to  be  chosen 
out  of  the  schole ;  saide  Scholers  to  be  suche  as  the  Scholeirl  and  Huisher  shall  affirme  vpon 
their  corporall  othe  to  be  poore  men’s  childrenn,  wantinge  helpe  to  maynteyne  them  in  learninge. 
My  leasses,  money,  plate,  housholde  stufi'e,  goodes  and  all  somes  due  to  me,  I  giue  them  wholy 
to  my  welbeloued  wief  for  the  payment  of  my  debtes  and  legacies. 

Vicesimo  tertio  die  Aprilis,  1585,  emanauit  Commissio  Suzanne  Androwes-  relict  diet 

defunct  ad  adstrand,  Ac.  P.C.C.  16. 

In  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  Burton  contra  Fiske,  31st  January  1593,  it  is  stated 
that  Symon  Fiske,  formerly  of  Elmswell  but  since  deceased,  had  granted  lands  in  Norton  unto 
one  Thomas  Andrews  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Esq.,  and  Suzan,  wife  of  the  said  Thomas.  He 
died,  and  Susan,  his  widow,  subsequently  remarried  Philip  Allington,  Esq.,  who  was  now  claiming 
the  lands  in  question.  Misc.  Chanc.  Proc.,  aeries  ii,  IV.  22. 

E 


26 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


cllill  of  (Ebmuni)  JUiHttos,  1598. 

I  Edmund  Andrews  of  Bury  S1  Edmunds  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke  make  my  last  will 

this  20th  day  of  February  in  the  fortieth  yeare  of  the  raigne  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  T  bequeath 

unto  Alice  my  wife  my  bowses  and  orchards  for  the  terme  of  her  life,  and  after  her  decease 
to  Martha  Andrews,  my  daughter,  and  to  her  heirs  for  ever.  The  residue  of  my  goodes  I 
give  to  my  wife  for  life,  and  then  to  Martha  my  said  daughter,  to  whom  I  also  give  the 

sume  of  six  hundred  poundes  after  my  wife’s  decease.  Said  Alice,  my  wife,  to  he  Executrix. 

And  I  ordeine  my  cosen  and  friend,  Sir  Thomas  Hewar,  Knight,  to  be  the  supervisor  of  this 
will.  Probate  -l1'1  January  1610  to  Alice  Andrews  the  relict  and  executrix. 

Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury. 


iprturjrfr,  Ihsttation  of  ^uffolfe,  1561. 

Edmond  Andrewes  of  Bury  S*  Edmond  in  the  Countie  of  Suff :  gent :  maried  done 
daughtr  of  and  had  yssue,  Thomas  sonne  Ac  heire ;  John  second  sonne. 

Thomas  Andrewes  of  Burye  S‘  Edmond  in  the  Countie  of  Suff :  gent :  sonne  <t  heire  to 
Edmond ,  maryed  Erne,  daughter  to  Heywarde ,  and  by  her  hath  yssue,  Tho  :  Andrewes, 

sonne  <k  heire ;  Edmonde  Andrewes,  second  sonne. 

Thomas  Andrewes  of  Bury  S  Edmond  in  the  Countie  of  Snff :  esquire,  maryed  Susan, 
dau  :  of  Thomas  A  Hein  of  London. 

Harl.  MS.  1103,  fo.  25. 


ijSrtugnr,  Qnbrrlus  of  35ury. 

Edmund  Andrews,  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds;  perhaps  identical  with  Edmund  Andrews^Joan,  named  in  the  Suffolk  Visita- 
who  made  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  5  Aug.  1492,  leaving  tenement  there  to  Joan,  his  wife.  1  tion  1561.  Harl.  MS.  1103,  fo.  25. 


1.  Thomas  Andrews,  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,1 
gent.,  a  Suffolk  and  Cambridgeshire  landowner ; 
sold  lands  in  Exning  and  Snailwell  to  Arthur 
Hewar,  his  brother-in-law,  by  Fine,  Trin.  34 
H.  8,  1542.  Will,  P.C.C.  7  Aden,  26  Aug.  36 
H.  8,  proved  8  April  1546. 


:Emme,  da.  and  devisee  of  Thomas  Hewar  of 
Oxborough,  co.  Norff.,  gent.,  in  Will,  P.C.C.  22 
Hogan.  20  Sept.  1534  ;  sister  of  Edward  Hewar, 
of  London,  who  made  Will,  P.C.C.  8  Martyn 
1568,  proved  17  Feb.  1573,  naming  the  Bury 
Grammar  School  as  residuary  legatee. 


2.  John  Andrews,  second  son.  A  John 
Andrews  and  Joan,  his  wife,  sold  fonr 
messuages  in  Bury  to  John  Smith 
in  1546.  Suffolk  Fines,  Easter  Term, 
38  H.  8.  He  is  not  named  in  the 
Hewar  Wills. 


r 


L 


1.  Thomas  Andrews,  of  Bury — Susan,  da.  of  Thomas=j=Philip  Allington,  3d  son  of  Sir  Giles  2.  EdmundAndrews,  of  Bury, gent. =T=Alice, 


St.  Edmunds,  gent.  Will 
proved  23  April  1585,  P.C.C. 
lands  in  reversion  to  the  Bury 
Grammar  School  ;  ob.  s.p. 


Allen,  of  London.  Add. 
MS.  5524.  She  sur¬ 
vived  Philip  Allington, 
her  second  husband. 


Allington, of  Horsheath.  Harl. ‘MS. 
1484.  He  mar.  her  at  Horsheath, 
5  June  1585.  His  Inq.  P.M.  is 
dated  27th  Elizabeth  1595. 


Will,  Arch.  Subd.,  20  Feb.  40  Eliz., 
proved  4  Jan.  1610  ;  hiscousin,  Sir 
Thomas  Hewar,  appointed  super¬ 
visor  ;  named  in  subsidy,  42  Eliz. 


his  wife,, 
living 
1610. 


Christopher  Allington,  son  and 
heir;  aged 6years and  11  months 
in  1595. 


Martha  Andrew's, 
.sole  da.  and  heir 
1598. 


I 

Edmund,  fil.  Edi.  Andrews, 
gen.,  bapt.  at  St.  Mary’s, 
Bury,  13  May  1590. 


Thomas,  fil.  Edi.  Andrews, 
gen.,  bapt.  at  St.  Mary’s, 
Bury,  5  Feb.  1592. 


QhiDrctos  of  iDaitgliln*. 


Robert  ant)  James  JUbretus.  Jleei),  1618. 

i 

Omnibus  xpi  fidelibus  ad  quos  hoc  psens  scriptu  puenerit,  Robertus  Andrews  de  Wyverston 
in  Com  Sufff,  cliciis,  Salute  in  Dmio  sempiter.  Sciatis  me  pfatu  Robetu  p  diusis  causis  et 
considerationibus  me  specialiter  mouetibj,  dedisse,  concessisse  feofifasse  et  lioc  psent  scripto  nro 
confirmasse,  Jacobo  Andrews  sen  de  Haughley  in  Coni  pdic,  patri  meo,  Clothier,  Totum  illud 
messuagiu  et  Tenementu  vocat  Hottotp  scituatu  et  existeu  in  Haughly  pd,  in  vico  ibid  vocato 
Market  streete,  in  quo  quidem  Thomas  Palmer  nug  inhabitauit,  et  dictu  tenementu  iacet  inter 
Tenementu  et  ortu  Edmundi  Battely,  exte  occiS  et  viam  ducent  ad  Haughly  Greene,  extr 
orient  vno  inde  capite  abbuttant  sup  foru  de  Haughly  pdic  versus  austr,  et  aliud  caput  abuttant 
sug  le  Towne  house  et  ortu  ibm  versus  boria,  cum  oinibj  domibj,  edificijs,  nrtis,  pomarijs  et 
gardinis,  eidem  messuagio  et  tenemento  gtinent  seu  quouismodo  specta,  cu  omnibus  et  singulis 
suis  pertinent.  Habend  et  tenend  dictu  messuagiu  et  tenementu,  domes,  edificia,  ortus  pomaria 
et  gardina  tarn  omnibus  et  singulis  suis  pertinent,  gfato  Jacobo  Andrews,  heredibj  et  Assignatis 
suis  :  Ad  solu  ac  propriu  opus  et  vsum  ipsius  Jacobi,  Heredii  et  Assiguato?  suor  imppetu,  De 
capital  Domis  feodi  illuis  p  seruic  inde  debit  et  de  iure  consuet  imppetu  p  pntp.  Et  ego  vero, 
dictus  Robertus  Andrews,  et  hereSs  mei,  omnia  et  singula  pmissa  supius  p  psentes  concessa  cum 
orhibj  et  singulis  pertinent  pfato  Jacobo,  Heredibus  et  assignatis  suis,  contra  nos,  heredes  et 
assignatos  nostros  Warratijabimus  et  imgpetuu  defendemus  p  pntf.  In  cuius  rei  testimoniu  huic 
psenti  scripto  sigiliu  meum  apposui.  Dat  vigesimo  die  mensis  Junij  Afio  regni  Domi  nri  Jacobi 
Dei  grac  Anglie,  ffranc  et  Hibernie  Regis  fidei  defensor,  Ac.,  decimo  sexto :  et  Scotie  quinqua- 
gesimo  primo :  1618.  T  me  Robetu  Andrews. 


Iftobert  Jtnbretoo  ant)  |t)ogh  his  brother.  Jleeti,  1634. 

Omnibus  xpi  fidelibus  ad  quos  hoc  psens  scriptu  puenerit,  Robetus  Andrews  de 
Wyverston  in  Com  Sufff,  clicus,  salutem  in  Domio  sempiter.  Sciatis  me  pfatu  Robetu  Andrews 
pro  et  in  consideraco!  cuisda  pecuniae  summe  mihi  g  quendara  Hugonem  Andrews  de  Haughly 
in  Com  pdic,  Clothier,  in  manibus  solut  ac  p  diusis  alijs  bonis  causis  et  consideraconibj  me 
movent  Dedisse,  vendisse,  concessisse,  feofaffe,  libasse  et  hoc  psenti  scripto  meo  confirmasse  pfato 


28 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Hugoni  Andrews,  fratri  meo,  hered  et  assignat  suis,  Totum  illud  messiiagiii  sive  Tenements  vocat 
Hottots  iacet  inter  tentum  Edmundi  Battely  exte  occid  et  viam  ducen  ad  Haughly  greene  ex4® 
orient,  vno  inde  caput  abutt  sup  foru  jMic  versus  austr,  et  aliud  caput  abuttat  sup  le  Towne 
house  et  ortum  ibm  versus  boria,  cu  omnibj  domibus,  edificijs,  ortis,  pomarijs  et  gardinis,  eidem 
messuagio  et  tento  ptinen  seu  quouismodo  spectan,  cii  omnibj  et  singulis  suis  ptinen.  Habkndu 
et  tenknd  j?dic  messuagiu  et  tenth,  domos,  edificia,  ortos,  pomaria,  gardinia  ac  omnia  et  singula 
alia  jfmissa,  superius  p  pntf  concessa  cii  omnibus  et  singulis  ptinen  fffato  Hugoni  Andrews  hered 
et  assignat  suis,  Ad  opus  et  vsum  ipsius  Hugonis  Andrews  et  Margarete  vxoris  eius  et  eoru 
diutius  viuent,  et  hered  ipsius  Hugonis  imppetim,  de  Capitalibj  Domis  feodi  illius  p  redd  et 
seruic  inde  prius  debit,  et  de  iure  consurt  p  pntf.  Et  Ego  vero  pdic  Robetus  et  hered  mei 
omnia  et  siugula  pmissa  supius  p  phte  concessa  turn  omibj  et  singulis  ptinen  fffat  Hugoni 
Andrews  heredibj  et  assignat  suis  contra  nos,  heredes  et  assignat  nostros  Warrantijabimus  et 
defendemus  imppetuu  p  phtf.  In  cuius  rei  testimoniu  ego  pfatus  Robetus  Andrew  huic  ffsenti 
scripto  meo  sigillu  meu  apposui.  Da't  decimo  tertio  die  Maij  ano  regni  Domi  nri  Caroli  Dei 
grac  Anglie,  Scotiae,  ffranc  et  Hiber,  Regis,  fidei  defensor,  ifcc.,  decimo  :  anoq,  domi  1634. 

Per  me  Rotjetu  Andrews. 


Mill  of  |T)ugh  JUfivetus,  1654. 

Hugh  Andrews  of  Haughley  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  clothier,  4th  February,  1634.  I 
bequeath  my  soul  to  God,  and  my  body  to  be  buried  in  the  churchyard.  To  Margaret  my 
wife  my  house  in  Stowmarket,  my  houses  and  lands  in  Haughley,  and  the  residue  of  my 
moveables ;  she  to  see  my  daughter  Margaret  brought  up  with  godly  education  and  learning  in 
the  fear  of  God  until  she  attains  her  age  of  sixteen  years.  On  my  said  wife’s  death  1  give 
said  lands,  etc.,  to  my  daughter ;  but  my  wife  must  pay  the  debt  I  owe  to  Susan  Andrews, 
daughter  of  James  Andrews  my  brother.  If  Margaret  my  daughter  die  without  issue  I  devise 
my  house  in  Haughley  to  Robert  Andrews  my  brother. 

I  give  to  Margaret  Brett,  my  sister,  and  her  children  to  each  five  pounds ;  and  the 
same  to  Katherine  Beadle  and  her  children.  To  Susan,  daughter  of  James  Andrews,  deceased> 
ten  pounds,  besides  that  legacy  I  owe  to  her  of  her  grandfather’s  guift. 

If  my  brother  Robert  Andrews  be  dead,  or  refuse  to  assist  my  wife,  then  I  appoint  his 
eldest  son  to  do  so  and  carry  out  my  will.  John  Reynold  and  Christopher  Rowland,  witnesses. 

Proved  7th  May,  1642,  by  Margaret  Andrews,  the  relict  and  Executrix. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Register  1642,  fo.  326. 

By  her  will,  dated  1st  May  1648,  Margaret  Andrews  of  Haughley,  the  widow  of  the 
deceased  bequeathed  her  freehold  tenement  in  Stowmarket  to  J ohn  Goodrich  her  grandson ;  with 
reversion,  should  he  die,  to  the  next  child  of  her  daughter  Goodrich.  To  James  Andrews,  her 
kinsman,  she  gave  one  leaden  weight  of  halfe  an  hundred  weight.  The  residue  she  devised  to 
her  brother  in  law,  Robert  Andrews  of  Wyverston,  whom  she  appointed  her  sole  executor.  This 
will  was  proved  (Arch.  Sudb.)  5th  July  1648. 


ANDREWS  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


29 


Mill  of  Bobcrt  JUtbrnos,  1661. 

Robert  Andrews  of  Wyverston,  co.  Suffolk,  clerk,  4th  Octr  1661.  To  Robert  Andrews,  my 
eldest  son,  my  lands  and  tenements  in  Wickham  Skeith  and  ray  books,  except  Wilson’s  Dictionary, 
which  I  give  to  my  son  James  Andrews. 

To  Margaret,  my  wife,  I  give  my  tenement  in  Bacton,  so  long  as  she  remains  a  widow. 
To  John  Andrews  my  son,  my  lands  and  tenements  in  Bacton  and  Westhorpe.  To  James 

Andrews,  my  son,  my  messuage  in  Halston  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  and  the  whole  benefit  of 

those  writings  which  were  made  to  him  from  one  Henry  Muskett  of  Haughley. 

To  Margaret  my  daughter  my  meadow  in  Mendleshan.  To  Sara  Andrews  my  daughter 
my  close  in  Westhorpe.  To  Judith  Minns  my  daughter,  and  her  daughter  Judith  Minns.  To 
James  Brett  my  kinsman.  I  appoint  Margaret,  my  wife,  and  John  Andrews,  my  son,  executors. 

Proved  at  Norwich  25th  November  1661. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norwich  Will  Book,  1661,  fo.  500. 

Robert  Andrews  was  instituted  to  the  Rectory  of  Wyverston  9th  June  1613,  on  the 
presentation  of  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon.  On  the  third  of  September  following  he  compounded  for 
First  Fruits  ;  James  Grundy  of  Norwich,  goldsmith,  and  Thomas  Salmon  of  the  parish  of  St. 
Dunstan’s  in  the  East,  London,  gentleman,  being  his  sureties.  We  learn  from  the  Consignation 

Books  at  Norwich  that  he  was  ordained  priest  by  John,  Bishop  of  that  See,  20th  Sept.  1612. 


Mill  of  Sarah  JUtdretos,  1605. 

I  Sarah  Andrews  of  Haughley  in  the  County  of  Suffolk  make  this  my  last  will,  1 3tkl  May 
1665.  To  Samuel  Minns  and  Judith  Minns,  my  nephew  and  niece,  children  of  John  Minns  of 
Chelsworth,  my'  brother  in  law.  To  George  Shipp,  my  kinsman,  now  living  with  my  brother 
John  Andrews.  My  kinswomen  Ruth  Shipp  of  Lawshall  and  Lidia  Butler  of  lx  worth.  To  my 
mother  Margaret  Andrews  a  piece  of  plate  given  me  by  Mistress  Cole.  To  Robert  Andrews, 
my  brother,  Rector  of  Chelsworth,  my  lands  in  Westhropp  called  Grimes  and  Marecloth,  charged 
with  legacies  to  Judith  Minns  my  sister,  Margaret  Munnings  my  sister,  James  and  John  Andrews 
my  brothers.  To  the  poor  of  Haughley  twenty  shillings.  The  cupboard  cloth  upon  my  brother 
John’s  great  parlour  chamber.  .Yly  brother  Robert  Andrews  to  be  sole  executor.  Proved 
25th  May  1665.  Arch.  Sudb.  Register  1665,  fo.  280. 


John  JUbvetos,  ^Surrcnticv  of  graughlen  |Eani)s,  1668* 

Haughley  cu  membris,  June  15:  1668.  Mem:  the  daye  J:  yeere  above  written’  John 
Palfrey,  copyhold  Tenant  of  the  said  mannor,  and  John  Andre wes,  gent:  youngest  sonne  of 
Robert  Andrewes,  clerke,  deceased,  youngest  sonne  of  James  Andrewes,  sometimes  of  Occolt  in 
the  said  co :  of  Suff :  clothier,  deceased,  did  surrender  into  the  hands  of  the  Lord  of  this 
mannor,  by  the  hands  of  Thomas  Glandfield,  in  the  presence  of  John  Everson  ....  customary 


30 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


tenant  of  the  said  mannor.  All  that  piece  of  land,  containing  by  estimacioh  one  acre,  lyeing 
in  Marketfield,  between  land,  late  of  Robert  Garnham,  now  of  Edward  Last,  on  East,  and  lands 
late  of  Henry  Stannard,  now  of  William  Soames  Esq.  on  West  dr  abbutting  on  lands  of  said 
William  Soames,  S.  &  N.  to  the  use  of  said  William  Soames  and  his  heirs  for  ever. 

Sigrmm. 

Signed  Johis  X  Palfrey. 

John  Andrews. 

From  a  paper  in  the  muniment  room  at  Costessey,  the  seat  of  the  former  owners  of  Haughley. 


Mill  of  global  JU'drelos,  1678. 

Robert  Andrews  of  Chelswortli,  co.  Suffolk,  clerk,  16th  Feb.  1678.  My  lands  in  Chelsworth 
to  Elizabeth  Andrews,  my  wife.  To  my  kinsman,  James  Brett,  the  copyhold  lands  in  Wyverston 
which  my  brother  James  Andrews  holds,  and  my  freehold  lands  in  Wickhamskeith.  To  my  three 
kinswomen  shee,  that  was  Sarah,  Lyddia  and  Martha  How.  I  give  my  lands  in  Westhorpe  to 
my  brother  John  Andrews  of  Bacton,  and  payments  due  to  me  as  Executor  to  Sarah  Andrew’s, 
my  late  sister.  Goods  by  vertue  of  Margaret  Andrews’  will,  who  was  my  mother.  To  my 
brother  James  Andrews,  my  whole  study  and  library  of  bookes.  My  sister  Judith  Mynnes.  I 
appoint  my  wife,  James  Andrews  of  Chelsworth,  my  brother,  and  Ralph  Hewett  of  Chelsworth 
my  brother  in  law,  executors.  Probate  4th  Septr  1689. 

Arch.  Sudb.,  Goodwin  ii,  fo.  223  b. 


Mill  of  James  JUtiretus,  1708. 

James  Andrews  of  Chelsworth,  Schoolmaster,  19th  January  1708.  To  my  nephew,  James 
Andrew's  the  elder  of  Milding,  clerke,  and  his  heirs,  my  messuages  in  Chelsworth,  which  I 
purchased  of  M™  Mary  Blomfield ;  also  a  tenement  there  and  a  messuage  and  farme  in  Little 
Harlston  in  Suffolk,  which  I  give  to  the  said  James  for  life,  and  after  his  decease  to  James 
Andrews  his  son.  To  said  James  Andrews  the  elder  my  messuages  and  lands  in  Wyverston, 
<kc.,  and  copy  fields  in  Wyverston,  formerly  the  property  of  Robert  Andrews  my  brother, 
deceased ;  he  to  pay  John  Andrews  of  Backton  in  Suffolk,  my  brother,  £30,  and  my  legacies 
to  Robert  Andrews  and  John  Andrews,  my  kinsmen,  and  to  Katherine  and  Elizabeth  Andrews, 
children  of  the  said  John  my  brother.  I  give  my  lands  in  Chelsworth,  some  in  her  occupation, 
to  Elizabeth  Hobart ;  she  to  deliver  a  release  of  all  debts  due  from  me  to  her.  The  estate  in 
.Wickham  Skeith  to  be  sold  by  my  Executor.  Bequests  to  Judeth  Mynns  my  sister;  Samuel  Mynns 
the  elder,  my  kinsman,  and  his  wife,  and  to  Samuel  Mynns  the  younger  and  to  Susan  Mynns, 
their  son  and  daughter.  Bequests  to  the  Greens.  Said  nephew  James  Andrews  the  elder  to  be 
sole  executor.  No  probate  is  recorded. 

Arch.  Sudb.,  Goodwin  iv,  fo.  385. 


ANDREWS  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


31 


3SUU  cf  John  Jlnbretos,  1712 

John  Andrews  of  Backton  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  gentleman,  this  29th  day  of  January, 
1712.  I  leave  my  soul  to  God,  and  my  body  to  be  decently  buried  at  the  discretion  of  my 
executrix.  My  estate  in  Bacton,  free  and  copyhold,  to  be  sold  by  my  executrix.  But  if  she 
die  before  it  be  sold  I  empower  my  brother  in  law,  Peter  Chaplyn,  clerk,  and  John  Chaplyn, 
gent.,  to  sell  the  same.  The  money  therefrom  to  pay  off  the  mortgage  on  my  Westhorpe  estate. 
I  bequeath  any  residue  which  rnay  be  left  to  my  two  daughters,  Katherine  Andrews  and 
Elizabeth  Andrews. 

I  bequeath  all  my  estate  in  Westhorpe  to  Elizabeth  my  wife  for  the  term  of  her  life, 
provided  she  consent  to  the  sale  of  the  Backton  estate.  Tf  the  Westhorpe  estate  is  sold  I  leave 
£40  of  the  'money  so  arising  to  my  daughter  Katherine  Andrew,  and  the  residue  to  be  divided 
equally  between  my  said  two  daughters  Katherine  and  Elizabeth  Andrews.  I  give  the  household 
stuff  to  my  daughter  Katherine,  and  appoint  my  wife  Elizabeth  Andrews  sole  executrix. 
Witnesses,  Ann  Nash,  Margaret  Steagell  and  James  Andrews. 

This  will  was  proved  January  2d  17~f  by  the  executrix,  before  James  Andrews,  clerk, 
the  Surrogate. 

In  his  will  of  1679  (Arch.  Sudb ,  fo.  308  Brydon)  Abraham  Chaplyn,  Vicar  of  Wether- 
ingsett,  mentions  his  daughter  Elizabeth,  then  wife  of  John  Andrews,  and  Robert,  John,  James, 
Katherine  and  Elizabeth  Andrews,  his  grandchildren.  Of  these  Elizabeth  was  baptized  at  Bacton 
in  1669,  Robert  in  1672,  and  John  in  1674. 


@ItiU  of  (Elizabeth  ^hurkrto,  1719. 

Elizabeth  Thurloe  of  Chelsworth  co.  Suffolk,  widow,  this  tenth  day  of  August,  1719.  To 
Ralph  Hewett  my  brother  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  my  lands  and  tenements  in  Lindsey,  Monks 
Eleigh  and  Groton;  and  in  default  of  issue,  to  James  Kerrington,  son  of  my  late  cousin,  Ann 
Kerrington,  widow,  and  his  heirs.  To  my  cousins  Katherine  and  Elizabeth  Andrews,  daughters  of 
my  late  brother  in  law,  John  Andrews.  To  John  Green,  son  of  my  daughter  in  law,  Elizabeth 
Green,  when  fifteen  years  of  ■  age.  To  Robert  Andrews,  son  of  Robert  Andrews,  late  of 
Barmingham,  clerke,  and  Robert  Andrews,  son  of  James  Andrews  of  Milden,  clerk,  on  decease  of 
said  Catherine  and  Elizabetli  Andrews,  children  of  John  Andrews,  late  of  Barmingham.  Bequests 
to  the  Hewetts  and  others.  To  my  son  in  law,  Thomas  Thurloe,  and  his  heirs  my  estate  in 
Stansted  in  the  County  of  Suffolk.  To  aforesaid  cousin  James  Andrews  of  Milden,  clerk,  and  his 
daughter  Mary  Andrews. 

My  estate  in  Cambridge;  and  the  lease  made  by  the  Masters,  Fellows  and  Schollars  of 
Clare  Hall,  to  my  daughter  in  law,  Elizabeth  Green.  Plate  of  the  value  of  £5  to  my  son  in  law, 
Nicholas  Thurloe,  clerk,  and  his  wife.  To  my  daughter  in  law  Elizabeth  Green,  £30.  To  John 
Green,  son  of  Elizabeth  Green,  £10.  To  Robert,  James,  John,  Katherine,  Mary  and  Elizabeth, 
children  of  Robert  Andrews  of  Barmingham,  clerk.  To  Thomas  Hardy,  father  of  the  wife  of  John 
Clerk,  £10.  Kinsman  Francis  Hewett  of  Melford,  and  to  Mary  Mootham  his  daughter.  To  said 
John  Clark  and  his  wife  Mary  and  their  children  John  and  Elizabeth  Clerk.  To  my  kinsman 
George  Clarke  of  Rovdon  £5  to  buy  plate.  To  my  cousin  Elizabeth  Wall,  wife  of  Bartholomew 
Wall,  £5  for  plate,  and  to  their  children  Bartholomew  Wall,  John  Wall  and  Elizabeth  Wall.  To 
Mary  Wall,  sister  of  my  cousin  Elizabeth  Wall,  £5  in  plate  and .  my  gold  ring  with  the  letters 


32 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


J.  M.  upon  it.  To  Bridget  Wall  and  Anna  Woodgate  her  sister,  daughters  of  John  Wall, 
deceased.  To  Rebecca,  now  the  wife  of  Mr  Newman,  James  Kerrington,  her  brother,  Judith 
Scarfing,  and  the  other  three  daughters  of  my  late  cousin  Ann  Kerrington,  namely  Mary,  Eleanor 
and  Anne.  Many  other  cousins  named.  Brother,  Ralph  Hewett,  and  James  Andrews  to  be 
executors.  Proved  5‘h  July  1720,  by  Ralph  Hewett,  and  28‘h  .Tune  1721,  by  James  Andrews. 

Arch.  Subd.  Goodwin  VTI,  fo.  38. 


SB  ill  of  'll  ho  nuts  (Lhurlotu,  1755. 

Thomas  Thurloe  of  Chelsworth  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  gent.,  13th  L)ecr  1732.  My  lands 
in  Stansted  in  Suffolk  to  be  sold  To  my  sister  Elizabeth,  now  the  wife  of  Abraham  Green, 
I  give  £150,  and  Sums  of  money  bequeathed  to  nephews  John,  Abraham  and  Thurlow  Green; 
also  to  Grace  Green  of  Chelsworth,  wife  of  Joseph  Green,  and  to  Susan  Hayward  of  Chelsworth. 
To  my  kinswoman  M”  Anne  Drift  and  her  two  sons,  George  Frost  and  Thomas  Frost ;  my 
sister  Thurloe  of  Brent  Ely,  widow,  and  Mr  James  Andrews  the  elder  of  Milding,  clerk.  I  appoint 
Thomas  Brundish  of  Chelsworth,  clerk,  my  executor.  Probate  16Ul  April,  1733,  to  Benjamin 
Brundish,  clerk,  the  acting  executor,  Thomas  Brundish  being  dead  before  executing  the  will. 

Norwich  Consistory  Wills  1633,  No.  10. 


eifiil ill  of  James  Jtniiretos,  1747. 

I,  James  Andrews,  Rector  of  Milding  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  weak  in  body  but  of  sound 
mind  and  memory,  doe  make  this  my  last  will  this  13th  day  of  January,  1747.  I  commend  ray 
Soul  into  the  hands  of  my  great  Creator,  hoping  for  mercy  and  forgiveness  through  the  Merits 
of  my  dear  Redeemer,  Christ  Jesus.  I  give  to  my  daughter  Mary  Leppingwell  the  sum  of  twenty 
shillings,  and  to  her  daughter  Ann  five  pounds ;  to  my  son  Robert  Andrews  five  pounds,  and  to 
my  son  Thomas  Andrews  fifty  pounds.  All  the  rest  of  my  estate,  real  and  personal,  I  give  to 
my  dear  son  James  Andrews.  And  I  do  hereby  nominate  and  appoint  him  to  be  sole  executor 
of  this  my  will,  which  I  have  written  with  my  own  hand.  Signed,  sealed,  published  and  declared 
by  the  said  James  Andrews,  and  at  his  request  attested  by  us.  M.  Canham.  Jn°  Canham. 

Proved  in  the  Archidiacona!  Court  of  Sudbury  23rd  December  1751  by  the  Oath  of  the 
Executor  within  named. 


SB  ill  of  James  ^niretos,  1758. 

James  Andrews  of  Brent  Eleigh  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  clerk,  10th  Novr  1758.  My  friends, 
John  Canham  of  Milding  Esqr  and  Edward  Coldham  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  gentlemen,  to  sell  my 
lands  and  tenements  in  Little  Halston  co.  Suffolk,  holden  of  the  Manors  of  Clopton  Hall,  Haughley 
and  Little  Halston  Hall.  My  freehold  lands  in  Little  Halston  also  to  be  sold.  To  my  brother 
Robert  Andrew  £4  per  annum  for  five  years.  I  give  the  moneys  arising  from  the  sale  aforesaid 
to  my  two  nephews,  William  Andrews  and  James  Andrews,  children  of  my  late  brother  William 
Andrews,  at  their  ages  of  twenty-one  years.  Tf  both  die  under  age  I  bequeath  said  moneys  to 
to  my  nephew  Thomas  Andrews,  son  of  my  brother  Robert  Andrews,  and  my  niece  Mary  Andrews, 
his  sister,  equally,  when  twenty -one.  I  ordain  said  Edward  Coldham  sole  executor.  Witnesses 
Mary  Digby,  Miles  Sargent,  Charles  Squire.  Proved  at  Bury  Sl  Edmunds,  30th  May,  1764. 


ANDREWS  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


35 

®tU  of  jlichnrb  Jiaic,  1742. 

In  liis  Will  of  27th  January7  1741,  Richard  Hale,  of  Twinsted,  co.  Essex,  yeoman,  names 
his  sons-in-law,  Joseph  Middleditch,  of  Melford,  co.  Suffolk,  and  James  Mullis ;  his  grandchildren, 
Margaret  Middleditch  and  her  sister,  Mary  Andrews;  James,  Richard  and  Ann,  children  of 
James  Mullis.  He  devises  considerable  property  at  Twinsted  and  Bulmer  in  Essex  and  in 
Melford,  the  latter  in  the  possession  of  John  Hale.  He  leaves  most  of  his  real  estate  to  his 
grandchildren  Mullis,  to  pass,  failing  issue,  to  his  granddaughter  Mary  Andrews  ;  and  the  residue 
to  his  daughter  Margaret  Middleditch.  By  a  codicil,  dated  16th  March  1741,  he  divides  this 
residue  between  all  his  grandchildren,  giving  a  legacy  of  £100  to  Mary  Andrews.  He  appoints 
Master  James  Hurrell  Overseer  or  Trustee.  This  was  probably  the  father-in-law  of  Robert 
Andrews,  of  Bulmer,  who  died  in  1756.  The  witnesses  were  John  Carr,  Richard  Death, 
Benjamin  Carter  and  Bernard  Carter. 

By  his  Will  (P.C.C.  372  Strahau),  dated  23rd  September  1747,  Joseph  Middleditch,  of 

Melford,  malster,  bequeathed  his  messuages  and  lands  in  Hartest  to  Margaret  liis  daughter ;  his 
messuage  and  malting  office  in  Pebmarsh  to  be  sold,  and  the  money  to  be  put  out  to  interest 
for  the  maintenance  and  education  of  his  grandson,  James  Andrews,  and  his  sister  Mary  Andrews. 

Should  both  die  in  the  lifetime  of  Mary  Andrews  his  daughter,  their  mother,  this  money  to 

remain  to  her.  If  all  three  die  without  issue,  he  leaves  said  money  to  Margaret  his  wife  and 
Margaret  his  daughter  and  their  heirs  for  ever.  The  Witnesses  were  Roger  Seeker,  Martha 
Nevill  and  P.  Richardson.  The  Will  was  proved  29th  December  1748  by  Margaret  Middleditch, 
the  relict,  and  Margaret  Middleditch,  spinster,  the  daughter  of  the  deceased. 

It  is  stated  in  Parker’s  “  History  of  Long  Melford,”  p.  151,  that  the  Rev.  Samuel 

Middleditch  was  curate  at  that  town  in  1679. 


(Hill  of  Iflidtarii  JUtlireLos,  1548. 

Richard  Andrews,  of  Haughley,  17th  June  1548,  bequeathed  to  Elizabeth  Andrews,  his 
brother's  daughter,  xxs  at  her  marriage  ;  to  Johan,  Margaret  and  Margery7  Andrews,  his  brother’s 
daughters,  vi8  viiid  each  at  their  marriages.  Should  they  die,  their  father,  Robert  Andrews  his 
brother  to  have  the  money.  The  residue  of  his  property  he  leaves  to  Elizabeth  Andrews  his 
wife,  whom  he  makes  his  executrix.  The  will  was  proved  in  the  Court  of  the  Archdeaconry  of 
Sudbury,  11th  October  1548,  by  the  Executrix. 


Inscriptions,  Qlhelstnorth  (Eliutch. 

On  a  black  marble  slab  within  the  altar  rails. 

Here  lyeth  the  Body  of 
Robert  Andrews,  who  was 
Rector  of  this  Parish  43  years, 
and  departed  this  life  the  8th 
of  July7,  Anno  Dom  1689 
aged  69. 

F 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


34 

In  the  nave,  at  the  east  end,  on  black  marble. 

Ralph  Hewett  dyed  June  the  11th, 

1721,  aged  78. 

His  station  happy,  with  contentment  blest, 
And  what  good  Agur  wisht  for  he  possessed. 

Here  lyeth  also  the  Body  of  Elizabeth 
Thurloe,  Relict  of  the  Revd  Mr  Nicholas 
Thurloe,  Vicar  of  Brentely.  She  departed 
this  life  June  the  7fcl',  1720. 

aged  SO  years. 


Inscription,  $rent  Illeigh  (llhuiTh. 

On  small  mural  monument  of  white  marble. 

In  Memoriam. 

Viri  lleverendi  Jacobi  Andrewes,  A.B. 

Qui  hujus  Ecclesiae  viginti  et  novem  annos 
Vicarius  fuit. 

obijt  nono  die  Januarii  A.D.  MDCCLXIV. 

aitatis  sue  LX. 

I 


(Extracts  from  the  Registers  of  gjaughlejj. 

1576.  xxviii  Oct.  Robert  Andrews  it  Elizabeth  Richers  were  married. 
1576.  xx  Jan.  James  Andrews,  <fe  Catherine  Cage  were  married. 

1579.  xx  Sept.  John  Andrews,  son  of  James  Andrews  baptized. 

1583.  i  Dec.  Susan  Andrews,  daughter  of  James  Andrews,  baptized. 

1590.  xvii  May,  Robert  Andrews,  son  of  James  Andrews,  baptized. 

1618.  ii  Sept.  Katherine  Andrews,  wife  of  James  Andrews  was  buried. 
1623.  xxv  July  Hugh  Andrews  <fc  Margaret  Vincent  were  married. 

1623.  xxv  July  James  Andrews  &  Margaret  Rowland  were  married. 

1625.  5  Oct.  James  Andrews  the  younger  was  buried. 


ANDREWS  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


35 


^riJtgrrc,  Slut) reins  of  $?au0f)ley. 


James  Andrews,  of  Haughley,  and  sometime  of  Occold,  co.=f=  Katherine  Cage,  mar.  at  Haughlev  20  Jan.  1576 ; 
Suffolk  ;  named  1618  in  Deed  of  Robert  Andrews,  his  son.  bur.  there  2  Sept.  1618. 


John  Andrews,  bapt. 
at  Haughley  25  Sept. 
1579  ;  buried  there 
1596. 


~r 


Katherine,  wife 
of  .  .  .  Beadle, 
and  had  issue 
1634. 


Margaret,  wife  of  Robert  Brett, 
of  Gislingham,  who  ob.  1637. 
His  Admon.  Arch.  Sudb.  Had 
son,  James  Brett. 


- I - “1 

Susan,  bapt.  James  Andrews,  bapt.  at  =p Margaret  Rowland, 
at  Haughley  Haughley  1587  ;  buried 
1  Dec.  1583  ;  there  Oct.  1625. 
living  1634. 


mar.  at  Haughlev  25 
July  1623. 


I-" 


Hugh  Andrews,  of=j=Margaret  Vincent,  mar.  Robert  Andrews,  Rector  of  Wyverston,=y=Margai-et,  devisee  of 


Haughley.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  4  Feb. 
1634,  proved  7  May 
1642. 


at  Haughley,  25  July 
1623.  Will  1  May  1648, 
probt.  5  July  following. 


1613;  bapt.  at  Haughley  17  May  1590. 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  4  Oct.  1661, 
proved  25  Nov.  following. 


M  argaret,  wife  of  .  .  . 
Goodrich  ;  had  a  son, 
John  Goodrich,  pro¬ 
bably  of  Haughley. 


Hugh  Green,  of  Chels-: 
worth.  Will,  P.C.C.  83 
Nabbs,  proved  2  May 
1660  :  had,  with  other 
issue — 


Abraham  Green, of  Ips¬ 
wich.  Will,  Arch.  Suff. 
6  Sept.  1682 ;  names 
James  Andrewes,  his 
father-in-law. 


Robert  Andrews,  Rector  of— Elizabeth,  sister  of  Ralph  Hewitt. 
Chelswortli,  eldest  son ;  She  re-nupt.  Nicholas  Thurlow, 
bapt.  .  .  .  1620 ;  Will  prob.  Vicar  of  Brent  Eleigh,  and  ob. 
Sept.  1689;  bur.  in  the  7  June  1720,  tet.  80.  M.I.  in 
chancel  there.  M.I.  Chelswortli  Church. 


Sarah  Andrews,  her 
daughter,  1665.  Will 
Arch.  Sudb.  1666. 


Ln 

Susan  A  ndrews,  only  sur¬ 
viving  child ;  devisee  of 
HughAndrews,  heruncle, 
in  1634. 


- J - - - - - 

Sarah  A  ndrews, bapt. 
at  Wyverston,  1636 ; 
ob.  s.p.  Will,  13  May 
1 665,  proved  25  May, 
Arch.  Sudb. 


I  I 

Judith,  bapt.  1626;  Mary, 
mar.  1,  Jn.  Mynns,  bap.  at 
of  Chelsworth  ;  2,  Wyver- 
Peter  Chaplyn,  of  ston, 
Higham,  co.  Suff.,  1624. 
clerk. 


:Susan,  sister=James  Andrews,  of  Chels- 
of  Richard  worth,  ob.  s.p.  Will,  Arch- 
Sparrow  of  Sudb.  19  Jan.  1708  ;  lands 
Ipswich.  to  nephew,  James  Andrews 
of  Milden. 


John  Andrews,  of  Bacton,=j=Elizabeth,  da.  of  Abraham 


gent.,  sometime  of  Haugh¬ 
ley  ;  bapt.  .  .  .  1633.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.  29  Jan.  1712, 
prob.  2  Jan.  17y§. 


Chaplyn,  Vicar  of  Wether- 
ingset,whomadeWill,Arch. 
Sudb.  .  .  .  1729,  naming  her 
children. 


I 

Margaret, 
wife  of 
.  .  .  Mun- 
nings, 
1665. 


Robert  Andrews,  of 
Barningham,co.  Suff., 
clerk.  Admon.  1716. 
Mar.  1,  Catherine  ; 

2,  Ann  Margetson.=F 


John  Andrews,  bapt. 
at  Bacton  24  June 
1674 ;  devisee  of 
James  Andrews,  his 
uncle,  1708. 


~l  I 


James  Andrews,  Rector-pMary,  his  Katherine,  livi  ng  1712. 


of  Milden,  bapt.  24  Jan. 
1677.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb. 
13  Jan.  1747 ;  prob.  23 
Dec.  1751. 


Mary,  bapt. 
1702. 


- 1 - 1 - 1 — - - 

James,  Robert,  John,  devisee  of 

bapt.  bapt.  Elizabeth  Thur- 

1698.  1700.  low,  1719. 


I - 

Katherine,  devi¬ 
see  of  Elizabeth 
Thurlow,  1719. 


Elizabeth,  devi¬ 
see  of  Elizabeth 
Thurlow,  1719. 


wife,  bur. 
at  Milden, 
13  April 
1746. 


Elizabeth,  bapt.  atBae- 
ton  12  Dec.  1689. 


James  Andrews,  Rector  of  Brent 
Eleigh ;  bapt.  at  Milden,  9  June  1704. 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  10  Nov.  1758; 
prob.  30  May  1764 ;  ob.  s.p. 


William  Andrews,  of  Long  Mel  ford  ;: 
mar.  at  Brent  Eleigh,  10  Jan.  1739  ; 
bur.  at  Milden,  31  July  1746. 


T 


T 


;Mary,  da.  of  Joseph  Middleditch  of  Melford,  who  made  Roberta 
Will,  P.C.C.  Strahan,  23  Sept,  1747,  by  Mary,  his  wife,  da.  Andrews, 
of  Richard  Hale;  bur.  at  Boriey,  Essex,  Sept.  1775.  bapt. 1709. 


Thomas  Mary,  wife  of 
Andrews.  .  .  .  Leppitig- 
bapt.1715.  well,  1702. 


William  Andrews,  of  James  Andrews,  of  Romford,  co.  Essex,  sur-^Jane,  da.  of  Wm.  Stace,  of  Mary,  born  1744; 


London,  born  1742 ;  geon  ;  born  1745  ;  mar.  at  Romford,  1774 ;  bur.  at 
died  unmar.  1828.  Havering,  1818. 


Romford ;  died  1840,  set.  89;  dieds.p.  1817  ;  bur. 
bur.  at  Havering.  at  Romford. 


Thomas  An¬ 
drews, under 
age  1758. 


James  Andrews,  of  Hillingdon,  Middlesex,  and  the=fPhiladelphia  William  Andrews,  of  Romford  and  CarIton=p  Anna  Maria,  only  child 


Bank  of  England ;  born  1775;  died  1855;  bur.  at 
St.  Matthew’s,  Brixton. 


/fw 

Andrews  of  Hillingdon. 


Whallev. 


Colville  ;  born  1788  ;  mar.  1809  ;  educated 
at  Felsted ;  ob.  29  April  1882 ;  bur.  at 
Aveley,  Essex. 


of  5.  Bartlett,  of  Up- 
minster,  Essex  ;  ob.  19 
Feb.l831;bur.at  Aveley. 


A 


36 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


I - ; - 

Anna  Maria  A n-=j=North  Surridge,  of 
drews,  b.  1815;  I  Romford  Hall,  Es- 
mar.  1853  ;  ob.  sex ;  born  1 806  ; 
1909;  bur.  at  j  died  1888;  bur.  at 
Romford  Ceme-  Romford  Ceme¬ 
tery.  tery. 


Henry  Bartlett  Andrews,  born 
1811 ;  died  abroad  185-. 

Mary  Anne,  born  1819  ;  died 
1821 ;  bur.  at  Havering  Well 
Cemetery. 


— n - - 

Emma,  b.  1824  ;d. 
1849,unmar.;bur. 
at  Romford. 

James  Hale  An¬ 
drews,  b.  1826  ; 
ob.  1831. 


A 

.J 


William  Hale  Andrews, born- 
1821;  mar.  1849;  educated 
at  Brentwood  and  St.  John’s 
Coll.,  Camb. ;  B.A.  1844 ; 
M.A.  1847  ;  Rector  of  Carlton 
Colville  1848—1894 ;  bur. 
there  1901. 


:  LouisaSophia,on  ly 
surviving  child  of 
Rev.  E.  Jermyn, 
M.A.,  Rector  of 
Carlton  Colville, 
1806—1848;  bar. 
there  1905. 


i - ; — 

Emma  Julia 
Surridge, 
b.  1854. 

r - 

Edward  North 
Surridge,  born 
1859  ;ob.  1877; 
educated  at 
Charterhouse. 


I - 

Emma  Louisa 
Andrews,  born 
1852 ;  living  at 
Kirkley,  Lowe¬ 
stoft,  1910. 


- 1 - 

Lancelot  William  Hale  Andrews,  born 
1853  ;  educated  at  Ipswich  School  and 
Trim  Coll.,  Camb. ;  B.A.  1875 ;  M.A. 
1880 ;  formerly  Rector  of  Lammas, 
Norfolk,  and  Rushmere,  Suff.;  living 
at  Carlton  Colville  1910. 


Edward  Jermyn  An¬ 
drews,  born  Nov., 
died  Dec.  1853. 

James,  born  and 
died  1854. 


MaryJermyn  Andrews, 
born  1857  ;  mar.  1889, 
Rev.  H.  Watson,  M.A., 
Rector  ofCransford.co. 
Suffolk.  =p 


- 1 

Edith  Jermyn 
Andrews,  born 
1859;  mar.  1897, 
Frank  Peskett, 
of  Lowestoft. 


Agnes  Mary  Faith  Barbara  Stella  Watson,  Frederick  Herbert  Elwin  Watson,  Herbert  St.  John, 

Watson,  born  1892.  born  1893.  born  1894;  now  at  Harrow.  b.  and  d.  1890. 


Anna  Maria  Surridge,  born 
1855;  mar.  1883,  Rev.  H.  M. 
Burgess,  M.A.,  Vicar  of 
Dench  worth,  Berks. 


William  North  Surridge,  born  1858;  mar.  1892;=f  Edith,  da.  of  Rev.  Canon 


educated  at  Charterhouse  and  Trim  Coll.,  Camb. 
B.A.  1881 ;  M.A.  1886  ;  Rector  of  Boxford,  Berks ; 
assumed  the  name  of  Andrews  in  1882,  under  his 
grandfather’s  Will. 


C.  R.  Manning,  J.P.  and 
F.S.A.,  Rector  of  Diss, 
Norfolk. 


- 1 

Eleanor  Mary,  born  1 857  ;  mar. 
1885,  Rev.  R  A.  Hitchcock, 
M.A.,  Vicar  of  Happisburgh, 
Norfolk,  by  whom  issue. 


Averill  Emilia  North,  Margaret  Edith, 

born  1893.  born  1894. 


i l- 

Mildred  North, 
born  1898. 


“1 

Cecily  Manning, 
born  1900. 


iUetugm,  8ntirftos  of  inlUngiion. 


James  Andrews,  of  Hillingdon,  co.  Middlesex;  born= 
1775;  ob.  1855  ;  bur.  at  St.  Matthew’s,  Brixton. 

=Philadelphia 

Whalley. 

r  .  .  1  ~1 

Mary  Philippa,  ob.  1840;  George  Andrews,  born  1807  ;  Eliza,  born  1811 ;  ob. 

buried  at  St.  Matthew’s,  died  unmar.  1879;  bur.  at  1867;  bur.  at  Hill- 

Brixton.  Hillingdon.  ingdon. 

i  "l 

Harr  iet,  born  1815  ;  ob.  Emily,  born  1819; 

1863  >  bur.  at  Brixton.  ob.  1881;  buried  at 

Hillingdon. 

r 

James  Andrew's,  of  Hackney,  born  1 800 ;=j=Susanna  Plaisted,  dau.  of  Robert  Dixon, 
ob.  1849  ;  bur.  at  St.  Thomas,  Hackney.  |  of  Felstead,  Essex  ;  bur.  at  Walthamstow. 

i 

“I 

William  Andrews,  born  Ann  Stephens,  dau.  of 
1806  ;  ob.  1881.  Henry  Ph ill ips.of Chep¬ 

stow,  Mon. 

P  H 

James  Edward  Andrews,  born  1836  ;  of  the  War  Office  Susanna  Caroline, 

1856;  Lieut.  1st  Warwickshire  Militia.  1868;  ob.  1877;  born  1831;  living  at 
bur.  at  Walthamstow,  Essex.  Bexley  Heath,  Kent. 

r  i  n 

William  Hale  An-  George  Daughters, 

drews,  of  Westend,  Stace 

Hants,  unmar.  Andrews. 

Charles  Andrews,  of  Clapton,  Middlesex  ;=j=Mary,  dan.  of  Henry  Phillips,  of  Chepstow, 
born  1813,  ob.  1874.  Mon.;  ob.  1873. 


Alice 

Mary, 

born 

1847. 


Henry 

James, 

born 

1849. 


Lancelot1 
Frederick 
Andrews, 
born  1853. 


:Jessie 

Cooper, 

mar. 

1882. 


Anne 

Eliza, 

bom 

1855. 


Florence  Margaret,  born 
1857  ;  mar.  John  Ring, 
1883,  and  has  issue. 


George  Hale  Andrews,  of: 
East  Dulwich,  S.E. ;  born 
1864  ;  mar.  1 890. 


Emma 

Chase, 

died 

1902. 


I - 

Leonard  Charles, 
born  1883. 


Frederick  Lancelot,  Edith  Mary, 

born  1885.  born  1889. 


Vera  Christina, 
born  1890. 


Henry  Lancelot  Hale, 
born  1894. 


— I 

Eric  George, 
born  1901. 


guttirftos  of  ^oration. 


Uhc  Jlncestrp  of  $ishojr  Jlntiretucii. 

We  know  but  little  of  the  lineage  of  Lancelot  Andrewes,  the  scholarly  Bishop  of 
Winchester.  His  earliest  biography  was  written  by  Henry  Isaacson,  who  had  been  his  amanuensis. 
He  tells  us  that  the  Bishop  was  born  in  London  of  honest  and  religious  parents ;  that  his 
father  spent  most  of  his  life  at  sea,  ultimately  becoming  Master  of  the  Trinity  House ;  and 
that  both  were  descended  from  the  ancient  family  of  the  Andrewes  of  Suffolk.  The  more  recent 
researches  of  Mr.  King,  the  Essex  antiquary,  have  thrown  but  little  light  upon  the  subject. 
They  are  summarised  in  that  quaintly  designated  booklet  “More  about  Stifford,”  by  the  Rev. 
William  Palin.  The  Wills  in  the  Prerogative  Court  and  the  Pedigrees  at  the  Heralds’  College 
have  been  diligently  but  vainly  examined  for  any  trace  of  the  Bishop’s  remoter  ancestors,  and 
the  numberless  MSS.  relating  to  Suffolk  have  proved  equally  silent.  Having  no  hereditary 
claim  to  Arms,  he  had  a  special  grant  in  1618 — Argent,  on  a  bend  engrailed,  between  two 
cotises  Sable,  three  mullets  Or.  But  the  evidence  of  the  Essex  Wills,  which  we  now  subjoin, 
is  conclusive  as  to  his  more  immediate  forefathers ;  whilst  the  improbable  pedigree  of  Andrews 
of  Horndon  in  Harl.  MSS.  1094  and  1184,  compiled  by  a  seventeenth  century  genealogist,  gives 
us  the  maiden  names  of  some,  perhaps,  of  their  wives.  A  great  man  ennobles  alike  his 
descendants  and  his  ancestors,  and  a  greater  churchman  than  the  devout,  yet  witty,  and  learned 
Bishop  of  Winchester  lias  seldom  lived.  His  forefathers  were  good  Christians,  judging  from 
their  Wills,  which  ai'e  notable  even  for  the  times  in  which  they  were  written.  They  fore¬ 
shadow,  dimly  though  it  be,  the  utterances  of  the  illustrious  divine  who  represented  them  in 
the  earlier  years  of  the  Stuart  dynasty. 


Mill  of  SSIiUiam  OSooiHutm,  1561. 

The  xxxth  daie  of  May  1561.  I  Wifim  Goodyfie  of  Horndon  on  the  hill  in  the  Com  of 
Essex,  wexclPndler,  do  make  and  declare  this  my  Testamente  conteynynge  my  last  will.  Fyrste 
I  comend  my  soule  vnto  god  almyghtye,  and  my  body  to  be  buried  in  xpen  buryall  where 
god  of  his  nicy  shall  appoynt.  I  gyue  to  my  eldyst  sone  Robert  Goodyn  my  messuage  called 
the  bell  in  Horndon.  To  my  sonnes  Thoms  and  John  Goodyn  xx1  at  there  ages  of  xxiij  veares 
— -to  either  of  them  x1.  I  bequeath  to  Lawncellot  Andrews  and  Agnes  Andrews  the  sone  and 
daughter  of  Thomas  Andrews  of  London,  marrynl,  my  right  wch  I  nowe  have  in  the  shipp 
callyd  the  Trinitie  of  Carytp  and  also  yn  the  Crayer  now  callyd  the  Hearne  of  London,  to 
Enioye  the  same  to  them  for  cuu  more.  The  forsaid  Thomas  Andrewes  of  London  by  his 


38 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


obligacon  berynge  date  the  xxiij11*  daie  of  M'^che,  in  the  iii jlh  and  vUl  yeares  of  the  late  Kynge 
and  Queue  Phillip  and  Marie,  standeth  bound  vnto  me  for  the  payment  of  xxx11.  Said  bond 
T  will  shalbe  cancellyd  and  made  void.  And  I  do  will  and  devyse  that  the  forsaid  Thomas 
Andrew  of  London  shall  stand  bound  vnto  my  sone  Robt  Goodyn,  and  to  his  executors,  for 
the  payment  of  the  said  some  of  xxx1,  for  the  usses  and  beliouffes  of  Robt,  John,  and  Mathew 
nowe  the  sonnes  of  Thomas  Andrewes  of  Horndon,  yoman ;  and  also  to  th’usse  of  Agnes  now 
the  daughter  of  the  same  Thomas  Andrewes,  as  sonne  as  they  shall  attayne  to  there  ages  of 
xxiij  yeares  a  pece :  that  is  to  say,  to  the  said  Robt  x1,  John  v1,  Mathew  v1  and  Agnes  x1. 
I  gyve  vnto  the  afforsaid  John  and  Mathew,  over  and  besydes  the  somes  to  them  befor 
assygned,  the  some  of  tenne  poundes,  to  either  of  them  v1  to  be  payd  by  myne  executor  assoune 
as  they  shalbe  of  thage  of  xxiij  yeares.  The  resydew  of  my  goodes  I  gyue  to  my  forsaid  sone 
Robt  Goodwyn  whom  I  make  my  soule  executour. 

Probatum  fuit  iij°  die  Decembris  1561. 

Arch.  Essex,  Liber  “  Randoll,”  fo.  138  b. 


Still  of  Jtgncs  Jlnbtetos,  1562. 

In  the  name  of  God,  Amen.  I  Annes  Androwe  of  Horndon  in  the  countie  of  Essex, 
mayden,  the  daughter  of  Thomas  Androwe  of  Horndon,  cosideringe  the  great  nornber  of  peflles 
and  dawngers  that  the  weke  and  feble  estate  and  Condicion  of  man’s  and  womane’s  nature  in 
this  vale  of  myserie  is  Subject  vnto ;  Remembrynge  also  that  nothinge  is  more  certan  then 
deathe,  and  vncerteine  then  its  tyme ;  for  whitt  we  live  it  most  nedes  be  that  we  enter  into 
this  waise.  Therefore  to  the  ende  that  I  may  dispose  and  give  soutche  thinges  as  are  lente 
me  of  god  to  his  Lawde  and  Honor,  and  for  my  sole  Healthe,  this  present  second  day  of 
febrewary  in  the  yeare  of  our  Lorde  god,  1562,  I  do  ordaine  and  make  my  last  will  and 

Testament.  First  I  bequethe  my  Sowle  to  Almightie  god  that  it  will  please  hym  mercifullye  to 

li  it  into  everlasting  ioye,  and  my  body  to  be  buried  at  the  discrecon  of  my  Executors.  1 
will  that  the  stoqke  of  mony  that  my  brother  Thomas  Andrewe  bathe  in  his  handes,  which 
was  given  me  by  the  will  of  my  Vnctte  Wilim  Good  wine,  the  sum  of  x1,  to  be  distributede 
in  maner  and  forme  followinge.  Itm,  I  give  &  bequeth  to  my  father  iiij1 ;  to  my  ii  brothers, 
Wittm  and  Robert,  to  ether  of  them  x*,  to  be  paid  them  imediatlie  after  my  dethe.  I  give 
vnto  my  brother  Mathewe  xx",  to  be  paide  him  at  the  age  of  xxi  yeares.  To  my  brother, 

Tho  the  yongar,  xls,  at  his  age  of  xxi  yeres.  To  my  sister  Elizabeth  at  her  age  of  xviii 

yeares  or  at  the  day  of  her  mariage.  To  Annes  Lowe,  my  sister  in  law,  xx6  to  be  paide  her 
at  the  age  of  xviij  yeares.  I  will  that  if  any  of  my  saide  brothers  or  sisters  do  dye  before 
they  come  to  the  forsaide  ages  [their  money]  be  devided  betwine  the  other  then  being  a  live ; 
and  if  they  all  dye  I  will  that  it  shall  Remayne  to  my  father.  Itm  I  give  to  my  father  all 
the  liesidew  of  my  goodes ;  whome  I  make  my  Sole  executore  of  this  will,  to  pforme  the  same 
Witnesses: — William  blache,  Robart  Drywode,  and  Joane  Hassard,  widowe :  withe  divers  other 
more. 

Probatum  septimo  Septembris,  1563.  Juramento  Thome  Androwes  executoris. 

Arch.  Essex,  Liber  Newington,  fo.  41 


ANDREWS  OF  HORNDON. 


39 


SStill  of  ehomas  ^niretos,  1568. 

The  xxixth  day  of  Decemljer.  T  Thomas  Andrewe  of  Horndon  in  the  County  of  Essex, 
carpent,  sicke  in  bodye  but  whole  in  mynde  and  in  good  and  perfeete  remembranns,  thancks 
be  to  almightie  god,  do  ordeyne  and  make  thys  my  last  will.  I  giue  my  soule  into  the  hands 
of  god,  my  bodie  to  be  buried  in  the  churchyard  of  Horndon.  I  giue  to  the  poore  mens  box 
of  Horndon  xijd.  To  John  my  son  a  bullock  of  thre  yeres  old  for  xiij*  iiijd  that  I  nowe  ow 
hym  and  my  best  cote.  To  Thomas  my  son  the  younger  a  fetherbed.  To  Wyllm  my  sonne  a 
gold  rynge.  To  Mathue  my  sonne  ij  platers  and  my  best  gyrkyne,  Ac.  The  residue  of  my 
goodes  I  giue  to  M^gret  my  wife  whome  I  ordaine  whole  executrix  of  this  will  ;  and  I  make 
Robert  Dry  wood  of  Horndon  and  Mathue  my  son  oversears.  Witnes  Robert  Broune,  Vicar  of 
the  parysh,  Robert  Drywood,  maker  of  this  will,  and  John  Andrewe  and  Mathue  Andrewe  hvs 
sons  wth  others. 

Probatum  xxv°  Januarij  1568.  (April  19th  1569  in  Act  Book.) 

Arch.  Essex,  fo.  47  Loffyn. 


Olill  of  iftargavct  (Sootitogn,  1592. 

Margaret  Goodwin  of  Horndon  on  the  Hill,  co.  Essex,  widowe,  19tl*  Novr  1592.  Robert 
Goodwyn  my  sonne ;  Sarah  Almon,  Agnes  Gyles,  Elizabeth  Hawkins,  Joane  Bowsy,  my  daughters  ; 
Susan  Hawkins.  To  Misteris  Andrewe  of  Tower  Hill,  my  bay  nagg,  wt  the  sadle  and  brydle. 
The  rest  of  my  goods  to  Robert  my  sonne,  whome  with  Robert  Drywode  I  make  my  executors. 
Probatum  die  Saturni  xviimo  die  ffebruarii,  1592,  ad  usu  executoris  duran  minori  etate  eiusdem. 

Arch.  Essex,  63  Stephen. 


Mill  of  Thomas  Jtntivetos,  1595. 

The  Three  and  twentith  of  June,  1593.  I  Thomas  Andrewes  of  the  parrishe  of  All 
Sainctes  Barking  on  Tower  hill  in  London,  Maryner,  doe  declare  and  make,  my  present  Testament. 
I  comend  my  Sowle  to  Almighty  god,  trusting  to  haue  full  pardon  of  my  synnes  by  the  deathe 
and  passion  of  my  Savyor,  Jesus  Christ ;  My  Bodye  to  the  earthe  from  whence  it  came.  I 
giue  to  my  Welbeloued  wyfe,  Joane  Andrewe,  the  moitye  of  my  Mannor  or  fferme  in  Raweth, 
co.  Essex,  called  Borrells,  and  of  all  the  landes  excepte  the  Advowson  of  the  Churche  of 
Raweth,  whiche  I  will  shall  remaine  to  mine  eldest  sonne  Launcelott  Andrewes,  clerk,  and 
his  heires  for  ever.  Alsoe  the  moitye  of  that  fferme  and  those  landes  in  Horndon  on  the  hill, 
co.  Essex,  and  landes  called  Gore  oke  and  Clayes,  and  of  houses  in  Redriffe,  co.  Surrey,  & c. 
To  ni}f  sonne  Nicholas  Andrewes  the  other  nioytie  of  Borrells  and  landes  in  Rawerth.  The  other 
moitye  of  those  houses  and  landes  in  Horndon  shall  remaine  vnto  my  sonne  Thomas  Andrewes. 
Premisses  in  Rederiffe,  co.  Surrey,  shall  remaine  vnto  my  sonne  Roger  Andrewes.  To  Martha 
Andrewes,  my  daughter,  twoe  hundred  poundes  at  the  age  of  xxi  yeares  with  remainder  if  she 
die  vnmarried  to  Marye  my  daughter.  Towards  the  repayring  of  the  churche  of  All  Sainctes, 
Barking,  forty  shillings.  To  the  poore  of  the  same  parrishe  ffive  poundes.  To  the  poore  of 
Horndon  on  the  hill  where  I  was  borne,  five  poundes.  To  the  poore  of  Raweth  and  Rederiffe 


40 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


forty  shillinges  a  peece.  To  my  brother  William  Andrewes  th’one  quarter  of  my  shipp  called 
the  White  harte ;  jet  it  shall  not  be  lawful!  for  him  to  alienate  the  property  thereof  by  sale, 
but  my  partener  Mr  Hilles  shall  receiue  and  pave  to  him  the  prollitts  thereof.  To  every  of 
my  brothers  and  sisters  by  the  ffather’s  side  dwelling  in  Essex,  forty  shillings  a  peece.  To 
Thomas  Andrewes  the  sonne  of  my  brother  Robert  Andrewes  and  to  Anne  sister  to  saide 
Thomas,  to  eache  half  a  dozen  of  silver  spoones.  The  rest  of  my  goodes,  my  ffuneralles 
discharged,  I  giue  to  Joane  my  wyfe  whome  1  make  my  sole  executrice.  Probatum  quarto  die 
Julij  1593,  juramento  Mpi  Beadle,  procuratoris  Joanne  Andrewes  relicte  diet  defunct. 

P.C.C.  58  Nevill. 


®ill  of  Joan  Jlniivelue,  1594. 

I  Johane  Androwes,  widdowe,  of  the  Tower  hill  in  London,  this  19th  daie  of  Februarie 

1574  do  make  this  my  last  will.  First  and  principallie  I  bequeath  my  soule  into  the  handes 

of  the  blessed  Trinitie,  trusting  to  have  forgiuenes  of  my  sinnes  by  the  merittes  and  death  of 

Jesus  Christ  my  Sauiour.  I  will  that  my  bodie  be  buried  with  due  and  decent  funeralles  and 
laide  in  the  Quier  of  the  church  of  all  Sainctes,  Barkeinge,  hard  by  the  bodie  of  my  late 

husband  Thomas  Andrewes,  as  neere  as  conuenientlie  it  maie.  I  giue  vnto  my  sonne  Launcelot 
Androwes  my  best  salte  with  the  couer  beinge  syluer  and  guilte.  Yn  to  my  sonne  Nicholas 

Andrewes  the  somme  of  one  hundred  poundes.  Vnto  my  sonne  Thomas  Andrewes,  servant  vnto 

Mr  William  Cotton,  draper,  one  hundred  and  thirtie  poundes.  Vnto  my  sonne  Roger  Andrewes 
one  hundred  poundes  to  be  paid  him  at  Midsomer  1597.  Vnto  my  daughter  Marie,  the  wife 
of  William  Burrell  of  Ratclif,  Shipwright,  fiftie  poundes.  Vnto  Andrewe  Burrell  her  sonne 

one  hundred  poundes.  Vnto  my  daughter  Martha  Andrewes  one  hundred  poundes  over  and 

above  the  two  hundred  poundes  she  is  to  receiue  of  me  as  executrix  of  Thomas  Androwes  her 
father.  Vnto  Alice  Andrewes,  the  wife  of  William  Andrewes,  my  brother  in  lawe,  five  poundes. 

Vnto  Thomas  Andrewes,  the  second  sonne  of  Mathew  Andrewes,  my  brother  in  lawe,  by  his 

first  wife,  five  poundes.  To  my  brother  in  lawe  William  Andrewes  and  Richard  Ireland,  my 

thirde  parte  of  the  shippe  called  the  Mayflower ;  said  Richard  Ireland  to  be  master  of  the  same, 

as  he  hath  bene  heretofore.  Vnto  my  sonne  Roger  Andrewes,  one  gui't  tankerd  and  one  goblet 
parcell  guilt.  Vnto  my  daughter  Martha  Andrewes,  my  second  salte  with  the  cover  of  syluer 
and  guilte.  Vnto  Joane  Butler,  late  wife  of  Robert  Andrewes,  my  brother  in  lawe,  my 

hooped  ringe  of  golde.  Vnto  Agnes  Butler  her  daughter  my  gimowes  ringe  of  golde. 

Vnto  my  cosen  germane,  Emma  Fowle,  five  pounds.  Vnto  ray  cosen  William  Biam 
my  Ringe  of  gold  with  deathes  heade  in  it.  Vnto  my  sister  Alice  Andrewes,  wife  of 
William  Andrewes,  one  cloth  gowne,  a  kyrtle,  with  the  residue  of  my  wearinge  lynnen,  now 
in  a  little  blacke  chest.  Vnto  the  poore  of  all  Sainctes,  Barking,  five  poundes.  I  appointe  my 
welbeloued  sonne  Lancelot  Andrewes  my  Executor.  And  so  I  yeld  up  my  bodie  and  soule  into 
the  handes  of  God,  now  or  at  anie  other  tyme  when  his  gracious  pleasure  shalbe  to  call  me 

hence.  In  the  presence  of  me,  Will  :  Bedell,  p  me  Peter  Hilles.  By  me  William  Prinsoppe, 

<kc.  This  will  was  publiquely  read  to  the  said  Johan  19th  March  1594,  and  by  her  then 
acknowledged. 

Probatum  decimo  quarto  die  Januarij,  1597,  juramento  procuratoris  Venerabilis  vire 
Lanceloti  Andrewes,  S.T.P.,  executores.  P.C.C.  5  Lewyn. 


. 


■ 


- 


V 


VOL.  III. 


PART  2. 


-is 


ll 


WC'D  AUG  14 


Suffolk  Manorial  Families, 


BEING 


£0e  County  (pisifaftone  anb  of$er  (pebtgreee, 


EDITED ,  WITH  EXTENSIVE  ADDITIONS, 


BY  THE  LATE 


JOSEPH  JAMES  MUSKETT, 


AND  CONTINUED  BY 


FREDERIC  JOHNSON. 


It  is  the  Editor’s  desire  to  make  this  work  an  exhaustive  resume  of  the  Genealogy  of  the 
County.  It  will  be  issued,  to  Subscribers  only,  in  Parts  of  about  forty  pages,  price  5s.  each, 
and  the  number  will  be  restricted  to  under  100  copies.  Communications  to  be  addressed  to 
the  Editor,  Mr.  F.  Johnson,  8,  Theatre  Street,  Norwich 


PRIVATELY  PRINTED. 


EXETER : 

WILLIAM  POLLARD  k  Co.  Ltd.,  PRINTERS  k  LITHOGRAPHERS,  NORTH  STREET. 

1914. 


. 

■ 

>  .  ...... _ 1 


ANDREWS  OF  HORNDON 


41 


j 


Slnfcrrius  of  ?1)  oration. 


Agnes,  sister  to=Thomas  Andrews,  of  Horndon,  co.  Essex,  yeoman. 
Wm.  Goodwin  Will  dated  29  Dec.,  pr.  25  Jan.  1568  Arch.  Essex, 
or  Goodyne.  He  had  three  wives. 


Robert  An-  =p  Joan 


drews,  liv¬ 
ing  in  1562, 
devisee  of 
Agnes  An¬ 
drews  1563. 


remar.  to 
.  .  .  Butler; 
living  1594. 


- 1 - 

John  Andrews, 
devisee  of  his 
UncleGoodwin 
1561,  andof  his 
father  1568. 


Thomas  Andrews, 
junr.,  named  in 
his  father’s  Will, 
1568 ;  under  age  in 
1562. 


Judith — Matthew  An-=f  -.. 
Turner,  drews,  living 
intend-  1594-5.  Will 
ed  2nd  1599,  Arch, 
wife.  Essex. 


L 


I - 

Thomas  Andrews, 
devisee  of  Thomas 
Andrews  1593. 


- 1 

Ann  (?) — . 
Butler. 


I - 1 - 1 - 

Robert  Rebecca,  William, 
Andrews,  alive  alive 
not  21  1599.  1599. 

in  1590. 


- 1 - 

Thos.  Andrews, 2d  son, 
living  1595 ;  devisee  of 
Joan  Andrews,  widow, 
1594. 


Margaret  .  . 
executrix  of 
band’s  will. 


hus- 


William,: 
devisee 
of  Agnes 
Andrews 
1563. 


- 1 

=Alice  Agnes  Andrews. 

Will  1562  Arch. 
Essex. 


L_l 

Thomas  Andrews. 


Thomas  Andrews,  b.  at  Horndon  1572.  Of  All  Hallows, -j-Joane 
Barking,  in  1593;  Master  of  the  Trinity  House,  1594-7. 

Will,  dated  23  June  1593,  pr.  4  July  1593.  P.C.C. 


Launcelott  Andrews,  b.  1555, 
Btstgjp  of  JUHincfjisttr  1519;  had 
a  grant  of  Arms  1618  ;  bur.  11  Nov. 
1626.  Will  P.C.C.  109  Hele. 


- n - 

William  Andrews. 


Agnes  Andrews, 
living  1561. 


.  ,  executrix  of  husband.  Elizabeth 
Of  Towerhill.  Will,  dated  19  Feb.  Andrews. 
1574,  pr.  14  Jan.  1597.  P.C.C. 


- 1 

Agnes  Andrews, of  Horndon, 
Essex.  Will  pr.  7  Sept.  1563. 
Arch.  Essex. 


Mary. =j=  William  Burrell,  of  Rat¬ 
cliff,  co.  Middlesex,  ship¬ 
wright  ;  married  before 
1595. 

A 


- 1 

Roger  Andrews,  D.D.,  bapt.  1576 ; 
Master  of  Jesus  Coll.,  Camb.  ;  Preby.  of 
Ely,  Winchester,  and  Southwell ;  Arch¬ 
deacon  of  Chichester;  d.  1635. 


Robert  Salmon,  of  Leigh, =j=Martha  Andrews, — Robert  Princep, 


Essex;  Master  of  theTrinity 
House,  1617  ;  bur.  in  Leigh 
Ch.,  1641,  aged  75. 


b.  1576-7.  Will, 
1653  (P.C.C.,  225 
Brent). 


of  London  ; 
husband. 


first 


Nicholas  Andrews,  of 
Saviour’s,  Southwark ; 
admon.  1626.  Exor.  to 
his  uncle  Matthew. 


S.=pAnne  .  .  .  ,  d.  Thomas  Andrews, =f  Alice 
1606,  bur.  at  citizen  &  draper  of 
All  Hallows,  London.  Will  1625 
Barking.  (P.C.C.,  Clarke). 


Martha 

Thomas 

Ann 

Peter  Salmon,  B.A.,  second  son, 

William 

Ann 

Joan 

Salmon, 

Salmon, 

Best, 

a  distinguished  physician  of 

Andrews, 

Andrews, 

Andrews, 

alive 

alive 

alive 

Stepney  inl650.  Had  issue  three 

living  in 

bapt. 

bapt. 

1626. 

1650. 

1626. 

daughters. 

1626. 

1611.  . 

1611. 

Thomas  Andrews,  citizen  of=r... 
London  1626,  son  and  heir. 


Nicholas  Andrews, 
alive  1626. 


Roger  Andrews,  Ann. — Arthur  Wollaston,  citizen  and  Mary  Andrews, 

alive  1626.  draper  of  London ;  alive  1626.  single  in  1626. 


Ann  Andrews.^Thomas  Cotton,  of  Cambridge,  Esq. 


Frances  Cotton,  daughter  and  heiress. — Dingley  Askham,  of  Conington,  co.  Camb.,  Esq. 


G 


42 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  $tatth*to  Jtntetos,  1599. 

I,  Mathew  Andrew  of  Horndon  on  the  Hill,  give  to  my  sonne,  Robert  Anderew  xx1  at  his 
age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares  ;  to  my  dawghtear  Rebeca  xx1  at  her  age  of  twenty  yeares  or  daye 
of  marriage  ;  if  either  die  the  survivor  to  be  the  heire.  To  my  sonne  William  Andrew  v1  which 
he  hath  in  his  hand.  Vnto  Judith  Turner,  whom,  had  God  permitted,  should  have  been  my 
wyfe,  x1.  The  reste  of  my  goodes  or  cattles  I  give  vnto  Nicholas  Andrew  my  cosin,  whome  I 
doe  make  my  executoar. 

[The  signature  is  picturesque,  and  the  will  short.  The  word  “  cosin  ”  here  signifies  a  blood 
relation.  Nicholas  Andrews  was  the  testator’s  nephew,  and  brother  to  the  future  Bishop  of 
Winchester.] 

4# 


Jfmural  Certificate  of  ^Bishop  Jlabretoeo,  1626. 

The  Right  reverend  father  in  God  Launcelot  Andrews,  Bishop  of  Winchester,  Deane  of 
his  Mats  Chappell,  prelate  of  y®  moste  noble  Order  of  y«  Garter,  and  one  of  his  Mats  most  honorable 
priuie  Councell,  Departed  this  mortall  life  at  Winchester  house  in  Southwark  on  fryday,  being 
y3  26th  of  September  1626  y  whose  funerall  was  most  honorably  solempnized  according  to  his  degree 
on  Satterday  y6  11th  of  November  following,  and  proceeded  from  his  house  aforesaid  to  the  parish 
church  of  Sl  Saviours  in  Southwark,  where  his  body  lieth  interred.  This  most  reuerend  father  in 
God,  having  spent  his  whole  course  of  his  life  piously  and  Religiously,  and  attayned  the  age  of 

71  years  and . months,  all  y4  tyme  living  a  single  life,  died,  most  charitably  disposing  of 

a  great  part  of  his  estate  to  his  kindred,  servants  and  friends,  but  ye  greatest  part  to  Charitable 
uses . 

This  funerall  was  ordered  and  directed  by  Sr  William  Segar,  Garter  principall  King,  Henry 
Sl  George,  Richmond  Herald,  and  George  Owen,  Rouge  Crosse.  The  Bishop  of  Duresme  chiefe 
mourner,  assisted  by  Dr  Andrews,  brother  of  the  Defunct,  Mr  Burrell,  Mr  Salmon,  Mr  Roger  Andrews 
and  Mr  Rooke.  The  great  banner  borne  by  Mr  William  Andrews.  The  4  bannerolls  by  Mr  Princeps 
Mr  Samuel  Burwejl,  Peter  Salmon,  and  Mr  Thomas  Andrews. 

The  corps  assisted  by  Docter  Collyns,  Docter  Beale,  Docter  Wrenne,  and  Docter  Greene 
This  certificate  is  taken  by  Henry  S*  George,  Richmond,  and  is  testified  by  y6  subscriptions  of 
Mr  John  Parker  aforesaid  his  Executor. 

Over  the  certificate  are  the  arms  of  the  See  of  Winchester,  impaling  Andrewes,  viz.,  Arg. 
on  a  bend  engrailed  between  two  cottises  Sa.,  three  mullets  Or. 


jfatcrlougl)  of 


The  pedigree  of  this  family  presents  so  many  points  of  interest  that  no  excuse  is  needed 
for  including  it  in  Suffolk  “Manorial”  Families.  The  Editor  desires  to  express  his  great  obligations 
to  Gery  Milner-Gibson-Cullum,  Esq.,  F.S.A.,  now  (1914)  Mayor  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  for  placing 

his  collections  as  to  the  Faircloughs  at  his  disposal.  The  precise  ancestry  of  the  Rev.  Laurence  i 

Fairclough,  Rector  of  Haverhill  from  1568  to  1605,  has  not  been  ascertained.  The  diocesan  records 
at  Norwich  have  been  searched  for  his  ordination,  but  they  are  unhappily  imperfect  at  the  period 
when  he  is  presumed  to  have  received  ordination,  and  other  sources  have  been  also  examined, 
without  success.  The  statement  made  in  Hollingsworth’s  History  of  Stowmarket  (1844)  that  he 
belonged  to  a  good  family  in  Lancashire  may  be  true,  but  there  seems  some  reason  for  thinking 
he  may  have  belonged  to  the  family  of  that  name  at  Weston  in  Hertfordshire,  in  which  the  name 
Laurence  occurs.  It  has  been  thought  advisable  to  print  all  the  information  collected,  for  the 
benefit  of  future  enquirers  who  may  have  greater  leisure  and  better  opportunities  for  the  investiga¬ 
tion  of  this  matter. 


JUmarid  §Ziixin%s. 

The  arms  used  by  the  family  of  Fairclough,  of  Fairclough  Hall,  in  the  parish  of  Weston, 
Herts,  were  Or,  a  lion  rampant  Sable,  armed  and  langued  Gules,  between,  three  fleur-de-lys  Azure. 
In  Tom  Martin’s  Church  Notes  ( penes  G.  Milner-Gibson-Cullum,  Esq.,  at  Hardwick  House,  Bury 
St.  Edmunds)  he  speaks  of  there  being  in  1750  at  Kennett  Parsonage,  in  the  parlour  there  a  fine 
old  portrait  of  Samuel  Fairclough,  Rector  there,  with  these  arms,  Or,  between  three  de-lys  Sa.  a 

Lyon  rampt.  of  the  second  [ langued ]  Gules,  and  the  crest  “  on  a  torce  Sa.  and  Or,  a  Lyon  issuant 

Sa.,  langued  Gules.”  These  arms  are  practically  identical  with  those  of  the  Hertfordshire  family, 

except  that  the  fleur-de-lys  are  blazoned  as  Sable,  but  it  is  quite  likely  the  blue  had  become 

dark  with  age  and  was  mistaken  by  Martin  for  Sable.  In  a  Herald-Painter’s  Notebook,  in  the 
British  Museum,  Add.  MS.  12,  223,  there  are  given  two  coats  which  the  painter  received  orders 
to  emblazon  for  the  funerals  of  the  wife  of  the  Rev.  Samuel  Fairclough,  who  was  buried  at 
Heveningham,  Suffolk,  in  1689,  and  of  the  Rev.  Samuel,  buried  there  two  years  later.  In  both 
these  cases  the  arms  are  given  as,  Or,  a  lion  rampant  Sable,  between  three  fleur-de-lys  Azure,  impaling 
Vert,  a  fleur-de-lys  Argent  for  Folkes.  In  the  case  of  the  Rev.  Samuel,  ten  escutcheons  on  silk 
and  eight  on  buckram  were  ordered,  and  in  the  case  of  his  wife  eight  on  silk  and  ten  on  buckram. 

G2 


Uffolfe,  Ett. 


i 


44 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


SHiU  of  Jfiugfr  Jfeircdtjff,  1528. 

The  viijth  day  of  Aprill,  1528.  Hugh  Feireclyff,  of  the  Diocese  of  WorcetL  To  be  buried  in 
Saint  Mary  Church  yarde.  To  the  moder  church  of  Worcetr  iiijd.  To  my  lord  prior  of  the  monastery 
of  Worcet1  to  say  masse  for  my  soule  vis.  To  Joane  my  doughter  xx1 ;  Alice  my  dour  xx1  yf  they 
lyve  vntill  they  come  to  lawfull  age.  Mending  of  the  Cawsey  betwena  the  Redehill  Crosse.  To  John 
Coder  my  wifes  father.  To  Thomas  Feirecliffe  dwelling  in  Lyrpoie  [Lancashire]  my  secunde  gown,  my 
swerde,  my  buckeler  and  my  best  Capp.  To  my  suster  xx*.  Edmonde  Heywarde  of  Stratford. 
Residue  to  Margaret  my  wife  whom  I  make  Executrice.  Many  bequests.  Probatm  xxiij0  die 
Maii  1528  jur  Wittmi  Rowlande  et  Margarete  Relicte. 

P.C.C.  32  Porch. 


®ill  of  ©eorgt  Jfaperdough,  1599. 

George  Fayerclough  of  Weston  com  Hertf.,  yeoman,  18  April  1599.  To  be  buried  at  the 
chancell’s  end  in  the  churchyard  of  Weston.  Vnto  Edward  Fairclough  my  sone  xx*.  Henrie 
&  Wiftm  my  sonnes.  To  Lucy  Fairclough  my  daur  xx8.  Marie  <k  Grace  my  dau8.  The  three 
yongest  at  there  yeareis  of  'twentie.  The  dores,  hinges,  lockes  (<kc.)  are  not  to  be  taken  away 
by  my  Exo18,  but  to  be  left  for  the  vse  of  my  Coze  Fayerclough  the  owner  therof.  Residue 
to  Marie  my  wife.  When  God  calls  her  she  to  mend  the  porcons  of  my  three  yongest  children, 
according  to  her  promise.  Tho :  Faierclough,  a  witness  [fine  signature].  Probatum  vii°  Junij 
1599  Marie  Faierclough,  Relce. 

Arch.  Hunt.  (Hitchin)  Register  4,fo.  66. 


Mill  of  puglte  Jfamdmtgltc,  1609. 

The  20th  January  1609.  Hughe  Fayrecloughe,  Citizen  and  Clothworker  of  London.  Unto 
Hugh  Fayrecloughe  my  sonne  £100.  To  Alexander  Fayrecloughe  my  second  sonne  £100.  Vnto 
Alexander  Fayrecloughe  the  younger  his  sonne  £10.  Vnto  my  daughter  Courthorpe,  wife  vnto 
Lawrence  Courthorpe  of  Lincolnes  Inne  Esqre  £10,  and  to  every  one  of  her  children  £10  (that  is 
to  saie  Lawrence,  George,  John,  Richard,  Hugh,  Alexander,  Faythe,  Anne  and  Mary  Courthope) 
at  the  age  of  20  yeares.  Vnto  Mary  Spencer  my  second  daur  £10  and  to  her  sixe  child1  John 
Thomas,  Hughe,  Robert,  Fayth  &  Mary  Spencer  to  each  £10.  Vnto  the  child11  of  Faythe  Sutton 
one  other  of  my  daughters,  deceased,  viz.,  Fayth  and  Elizabeth  Sutton  to  each  £10.  She  was 
wife  vnto  John  Sutton  of  Aldenham,  gentleman,  in  co.  Hertford.  Vnto  Elizabeth  Fayrecloughe 
daur  vnto  my  brother  Roger  Fayreclough  £5  after  her  marriage.  The  rest  of  my  goodes  I  give 


FAIRCLOUGH  OK  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


45 


vnto  my  lovinge  wife  Faythe  Fayrecloughe,  leases,  money,  plate,  Jewells,  &c.,  &c.  I  make  her 
my  full  and  sole  Executrix.  I  ordaine  my  sonne  Sutton,  my  sonne  Spencer,  and  my  cosen  Robert 
Cogan  my  Overseers — they  shall  have  for  their  paynes  and  travell,  either  of  them,  a  golde  ringe 
of  ffortie  shillinges.  Vnto  Thomas  Spencer  my  sonne  in  lawe  tenne  poundes  for  a  legacie,  whome 
I  have  forgotten.  Robert  Cogan  the  younger  a  witness. 

Probatum  penultimo  die  Januarij  1610,  juramento  Fidis  Fayreclough  Relicte  et  executricis. 

P.C.C.  4  Wood. 


Q&Lxli  of  Thomas  Jfairdaugk  of  gioltopo  patfielb,  1613. 

Will  of  Thomas  Fairclough  of  Bishop’s  Hatfield,  co.  Hertford,  mercer,  1613  July  25th.  Soule 
into  the  handes  of  God,  my  maker,  and  to  Jesus  Christe,  my  noble  Saviour  and  Redeemer.  To 
my  sonne  Richard  Faireclougli  all  the  ware  in  my  shoppe.  Vnto  my  daur  Elizabeth  Fairclough 
the  money  &  stocke  sliee  hath  in  her  owne  custodie  aboute  the  business  shee  is  putt  in  trust  with. 
My  sixe  children,  Thomas,  William,  Hellen,  Affabel,  Cadwallader,  and  Elizabeth  Fairclough,  tenn 
poundes  a  peece.  Wife  nowe  with  childe.  Residue  to  wife.  She  executrix.  Freind  Abraham 
Addnison,  overseer.  Witnesses,  Abraham  Addiyson,  Richard  Fartlow,  etc. 

Arch.  Huntingdon  (Hitchin)  Register  No.  5,  fo.  57. 

[The  name  Fairclough  is  also  written,  in  undoubted  Fairclough  documents,  Faircloth,  Fartlow, 
Feklow,  Vertelow,  etc.  But  some  of  the  Faircloths  do  not  seem  to  have  any  connection  with  the 
Faircloughs.  Faircliff  is  also  a  'possible  spelling. 


Jfaiih  Jfaimlmtgk  of  Jonion,  1613. 

The  sixte  day  of  Aprill  1615.  Faith  Faireclougli  of  London,  widowe.  My  body  to  be 
buried,  christianlye,  in  the  parish  church  of  Sl  Michaell  in  the  Querne  in  London  where  I  dwell. 
My  late  husband  Hugh  Faireclougli  did  by  his  will  give  vnto  his  and  my  sonne  Hugh  Faireclough 
one  hundred  poundes  whereof  but  onlye  twentie  poundes  is  as  yet  paid  vnto  him.  I  will  that  the 
ffourescore  poundes  remainder  shall  be  paide  him  by  tenn  poundes  a  yeare  in  foure  yeares  and  the 
other  Forty  residue  in  two  yeares  next  followinge  by  xx1  p.  annu.  I  give  more  vnto  him  xx11 
and  an  annuytie  of  xxx11  during  the  space  of  xij  yeares.  My  late  husband  did  give  vnto  my 
dau’  Agnes  Courthope  wife  of  Lawrence  Courthope  of  Wargrave  co.  Berks  Esq1'  and  to  every  one 
of  ’their  children  upon  condicons — which  condicons  said  Lawrence  hath  broken — whereby  such 
legacies  are  lost.  Nevertheless  if  he  shall  yett  deliver  a  generall  release  of  all  demaunds  and  bonds 
as  he  hath  in  his  handes,  then  and  not  otherwise,  I  give  in  liewe  of  said  legacies  to  said  Agnes 
my  daur  £10  yearely  during  eight  yeares,  and  amongst  her  child11  ffourescore  poundes.  Further 
I  give  her  one  yearely  some  of  thirtie  poundes  during  the  space  of  tenne  yeares.  Her  legacies 
shalbe  paid  to  her  selfe  and  be  disposed  of  by  herselfe,  and  her  husband  shall  not  in  any  wise 
meddle  therewith,  wch  if  he  shall  attempt,  such  legacies  &c.  shall  cease  and  be  vtterly  voyde. 
Vnto  my  dau.  Mary  Spencer  widow  one  annuytie  of  Forty  poundes  during  eighteene  years.  Vnto 


46 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Faith  Spencer  one  of  her  daus  fourescore  poundes  after  her  age  of  xxi  yeares.  Vnto  Mary  Spencer 
her  other  daur  £100.  Ynto  John  &  Hugh  Spencer  twoe '  of  her  sonnes  £20  a  peece,  and  to 
Thomas  Spencer  £30  at  the  expiracon  of  their  severall  apprentisships.  Vnto  my  nephew  Mr  Robert 
Cogan  40s  to  buy  him  a  ringe.  Vnto  my  niece  Faith  Browne,  daur  of  my  brother  Melcher  Browne 
£10.  Vnto  my  kinsman  Mr  Raphe  Brown  thelder  of  Hambledon  in  Surrey  20s  to  buy  a  ringe, 
and  to  his  wife  and  his  sonne  Raphe  Browne  ringes.  Vnto  Anne  Reade  wife  of  James  Reade 
&  daur  of  my  said  cosen  Browne  £5.  Vnto  my  sister  Thomasin  Hamon  wife  of  Thomas  Hamon 
20s  to  make  her  a  ringe.  Vnto  my  daur  Mary  Spencer  all  my  goodes  in  and  about  my  dwelling 
house  wholye  as  they  stande  and  also  all  other  goods,  leases  and  chatties  whatsoever.  I  constitute 
her  my  full  &  sole  executrix.  I  appoint  my  neighbour  and  freinde  Mr  Humfrye  Hawes  to  be 
Overseer  whome  I  give  xxs  to  buy  him  a  ringe.  Willm  Bedingfeild,  a  witness. 

Probatum  xxiv0  die  Aprilis  1615,  juramento  Marie  Spencer  Executricis. 

P.C.C.  30,  Rudd. 


Mill  of  Thomas  IfUrlfe,  1626. 

Will  of  Thomas  Rolfe,  late  of  Gouldrington  in  co.  Bedd.  (nuncupative).  About  24  April 
1626  he  did  vtter  his  minde  before  divers  witnesses.  He  gave  vnto  Jane  Faireclowgh  his  mistresses 
daur,  who  had  attended  him  att  the  tyme  of  his  sickness,  all  his  goodes.  Asked  what  he  would 
give  vnto  his  Kinsfolkes,  he  answeared  he  would  give  them  nothinge.  Robert  Haselden  gen  a 
witness.  [The  Haseldens  intermarried  with  the  Weston  Faircloughs.]  Comisg  18  Sept.  1630,  Anne 
Vartlowe  ats  Faierclough  matri  Janae  Vartlowe  als.  Faircloughe  principali  legatar. 

P.C.C.  77  Scroope. 


(Kill  of  Jilt ce  ^okefitli,  1639. 

Will  of  Alice  Tokefield,  of  High  Holborn,  Middx.,  widow,  4  July  1639.  To  be  buried  by 
late  husbd  in  the  parish  of  Sl  Andre  we  Holborn.  Vnto  Alice  wife  of  Giles  Nicholls  £8  yerely  to 
maintain  her  &  Lawrence  &  Richard  her  sons.  When  21  Exor  shall  give  them  each  £100  and  said 
annuity  cease.  To  Mary  wife  of  Wm.  Wilder  £200.  Richard  their  son.  Other  Nicholls  bequests. 
Daniel  Tokefield,  husband’s  brother.  Other  Tokefields.  To  Mrs  Dorothy  Kempe  the  elder  of 
Wickham,  widow,  a  diamond  ring.  To  Mrs  Francis  Motham,  wife  of  Mr  Thomas  Motham  xxs 
for  Ringe.  Sara  Motham  their  daughter.  Vnto  Lawrence  Fairclough,  late  of  Grayes  Inne  co. 
Middx.,  gent.,  servant  to  my  late  husband.  He  sole  exor.  Mr  Motham  &  Mr  Retoricke  of  Holborn, 
overseers.  Probat.  2  Aprill  1640,  juramento  Laurentii  Faircloughe  gen  exoris. 

P.C.C.  53  Coventry. 


FAIRC LOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


47 


OiSiiU  of  John  Jfairdoih,  1647. 

Robert  Fairecloth  of  Hertford,  co.  Herts,  miller.  To  my  daur  Margrett  £30  at  the  age  of 
one  &  twenty  years.  To  my  daur  Mary  one  messuage  in  Enfield  co.  Middx,  at  her  age  of  two 
and  twenty  in  the  tenure  of  Richard  Hickson.  To  my  daur  Ann  twenty  pounds,  to  be  putt 
forth  to  her  vse  to  the  best  advantage  vntill  she  shall  attaine  to  the  age  of  two  and  twenty  yeares. 
I  make  my  vncle  Nicholas  Maskall  cittizen  and  Biskett  maker  of  London,  liveing  in  Bread  street 
in  the  Citty  of  London  sole  executor.  And  for  his  care  I  give  him  £5.  The  residue  of  all  my 
goodes  shall  remaine  to  my  daur  Ann  to  her  onely  vse  and  behoofe.  The  10®  day  of  July  1647. 
Probatum  secundo  die  Januarij  1648,  juramento  Nicholas  Maskall  Executoris. 

P.C.C.  13  Fairfax. 


SStiU  of  ^flabtU  Jfaxrdougk,  1650. 

Affabell  Faierclough,  Cittizen  and  Grocer  of  London.  I  forgive  vnto  my  brother  Thomas 
Faierclough  all  debts  he  oweth  me  and  bequeath  unto  him  fforty  pounds.  I  forgiue  unto  my 
(Affabell  Faierclough)  brother  Edward  Faierclough  all  debts  he  oweth  me  and  I  giue  bim  the  sume 
of  ten  shillings.  I  forgive  unto  my  brother  Giles  Faierclough  all  the  debts  he  oweth  me  and 
give  him  forty  poundes.  Vnto  my  brother  Edward  Tyther  hue  pounds  and  unto  Mary  his  wife 
the  like  sume.  Unto  my  daughter  Anne  Tyther  fiftie  pounds,  and  unto  her  husband  Thomas 
Tyther  five  pounds.  To  godson  Thomas  Tyther  ten  pounds.  Unto  Nicholas  Colquit  sonne  of 
my  now  wife  Margarett  fiftye  pounds.  To  Hester  Tyther  one  hundred  pounds  on.  day  of  marriage. 
I  am  a  member  of  the  Companie  of  Grocers.  Unto  my  sister  Boothby,  that  dwelt  at  Kingsland, 
five  pounds.  Unto  Ann  Tyther  daughter  of  Thomas  Tyther  fiue  pounds,  and  unto  Anthony  Tyther 
sonne  of  the  said  Thomas  ffiue  pounds  at  his  age  of  one  and  twenty  years.  The  rest  of  my  goods 
and  psonall  estate  I  give  to  Margarett  my  louing  wife  whome  I  make  sole  executrix.  My  expresse 
will  is  that  no  person  shall  weare  mourning  at  my  Buriall  except  my  executor  and  that  neither  the 
Company  of  Grocers  nor  the  Gouernors  of  the  Hospitall  of  S*  Bartholomeu 1  be  invited  to  my 
Buriall.  The  first  day  of  January  1650.  The  above  will  was  proved  the  29th  of  Aprill  1653 
by  the  oath  of  Margarett  Faireclough  the  Relict. 

P.C.C.  325  Brent. 


Ipichmi)  JJamlough  oi  SEortltington,  1657. 

Richard  Fareclough  of  Worthington,  co.  Lancaster,  Naylor,  20th  Dec.  1657.  To  be  buried 
in  the  parish  church  of  Wigan.  Goods  to  be  devided  into  three  equal  partes.  The  first  I  give 
to  Dorothy  my  wife  ;  the  second  unto  my  three  sonnes  Lawrence,  Ralph  and  Oliver,  whom  I 
constitute  my  Executors.  The  third  &  last  parte,  which  is  my  owne,  I  give  to  my  said  three 
sonnes.  There  is  oweinge  by  Ellen  Fareclough,  widdowe,  tenn  shillings.  Proved  at  London  22d 
Januarij  1657  by  the  oaths  of  the  joynt  executors  named  in  the  will. 

P.C.C.  26  Wotton. 


1  He  was  a  member  of  both  bodies. 


48 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


JFlavgaret  Jfaierdouglt  of  ^Konimn,  1668. 

Margaret  Faierclough  of  London,  widow.  To  be  buried  in  the  church  of  All  hallowes,  Bread 
street,  neere  my  husband  &  children  there  interred.  Goods  to  my  son  in  law  Thomas  Tyther, 
who  hath  stood  by  me  in  all  my  troubles.  I  make  him  sole  executor.  This  27th  Jany  1668. 
Probatum  xx°  die  Januar  1672,  juramento  Thomse  Tyther  executoris. 

P.C.C.  7  Pye. 


James  Jfairelmtgh,  §)r.  of  phisick,  1684. 

James  Fairclough,  Dr  of  Phisick.  I  give  my  five  hundred  guineas  in  the  custody  of  my 
couzen  John  Low,  and  the  £400  in  the  hands  of  Mr  Percivall  &  Mr  Evans,  Gouldsmiths  in  Lombard 
Street,  London,  and  for  payment  of  which  vnto  my  sonne  Henry  Fairclough  a  note  is  given  vnto 
Mr  John  Garrett.  All  the  rest  of  my  estate  I  give  vnto  my  sonnes  James  &  Henry  Fairclough 
equally,  including  mortgages  &  debts.  My  sonne  Henry  to  be  sole  executor.  This  30th  January 
1684. 

John  Garrett  of  London,  scrivener,  deposes  lie  was  sent  for  by  Mr.  Henry  Fairclough  to  come 
to  his  Chambers  in  the  Temple  where  James  Fairclough  Dcor  of  Pliisicke  lay  sicke  &c.  to  see  said 
will  written  &c.  John  Lowe  of  Chancery  Lane,  gent.,  aged  54,  who  was  also  in  the  room,  gives 
details  of  the  making  of  'the  will. 

Probatum  xvi°  die  Feb.  1684,  juramento  Henrici  Fairclough  hi  et  exor  Feb.  xxv°  1711  comisS 
Adm  Elizabethse  Skinner  vid  consobrinse  prox.  consang  et  admx  Henrici  Fairclough  fii  et  exor 
Jacobi  Fairclough. 

P.C.C.  19  Cann. 


James  Jfairelmtgh,  1695. 

James  Fairclough,  Merchant  at  Constantinople,  cselebs.  I  declare  Mr  Peter  Whitcomb  & 
Mr  Brownlow  Everard  my  assignes,  whom  I  give  750  dollars  as  a  token  of  their  kindness  to  me. 
To  two  gentlemen  of  the  Factory  of  Gallata  of  Constantinople.  To  the  poor  of  Upper  Holland 
in  Latham,  co.  Lancashire,  1,000  dollars  (=  £200).  Children  of  John  Spencer  of  Latham  co.  Lane., 
which  he  had  by  my  father’s  sister  (he  was  Dr  James  Fairclough,  deceased)  viz.  :  James,  Elizabeth, 
Anne,  Mary  and  Martha.  The  rest  of  my  goods  to  my  brother  Mr  Henry  Fairclough  of  the  Inner 
Temple,  London,  whom  I  make  my  sole  heir.  If  he  die  without  issue  I  give  my  lands  to  James 
Spencer,  son  of  John  Spencer  of  Latham.  A  Free  School  or  almshouse  to  be  built  in  Upper 
Holland  co.  Lane,  if  possible  where  my  grandfather’s  house  stood.  [The  schollars  ?]  all  to  have 
cloathes  of  one  colour  &c.  This  19th  June  1695. 

Primo  die  Julij  1697,  comiss  Petro  Whitcombe,  nominato  in  testamento  ad  administrand 
bona,  jura  &  credita  &c. 


P.C.C.  139  Pyne. 


FAIRCLOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


49 


(Elizabeth  Jfaiixlough,  1099. 

Elizabeth  Fairclough  of  London,  widow.  To  my  sonn  Thomas  Fairclough,  one  shilling. 
To  my  sonn  Edward  Fairclough  one  shilling.  To  my  grandson  Edward  Fairclough  £10  towards 
putting  him  out  to  some  trade  as  my  sonn  William  Fairclough  shall  think  fitt .  Rest  to  said 
William  whom  I  appoint  sole  executor.  This  29th  day  of  Sept1’  1699.  In  the  presence  of  Thomas 
Bradford,  Jeremiah  Knott,  William  Martin  &  Mr  Springetts.  Probatum  xix  Octobris  1699,  jura- 
mento  Willielmi  Fairclough  fit  dicti  defuncti. 

P.C.C.  156  Pett. 


Jostpk  if  air  dough,  1716. 

Joseph  Fairclough  of  the  parish  of  Sl  Olave,  Southwark,  Waterman  &  Lighterman.  Unto 
my  loving  wife  Rebecca  Fairclough  all  my  estate,  upon  this  special  trust,  that  she  do  not,  nor 
shall  marry  after  my  decease.  But,  if  she  do,  I  give  to  my  three  children  Mary,  Elizabeth  and  Alice 
Fairclough  £100  a  piece,  to  be  paid  in  three  months  after  her  said  marriage,  into  the  hands  of 
my  friends  Thomas  Sterry  and  Christopher  Smith,  to  be  paid  said  children  at  their  respective  ages 
of  twenty  one  years  or  days  of  marriage.  Said  wife  sole  executrix.  This  21st  day  of  Novr  1716. 
Thomas  Sterry  &  Christoph1  Smith  exors.  Mem.  If  wife  does  not  marry  &  my  daurs  survive  her, 
estate  to  them  equally.  Probatum  xiv°  die  Januar  1716  per  affirmationem  sive  declarationem 
solemnis  Rebeccse  Fairclough  Relictse  dicti  defuncti. 

P.C.C.  7  Whitfield. 


SHill  of  Binalt  JfaiiTloaih,  1716. 

Dinah  Faircloath  of  Lambeth  co.  Surrey,  widow,  18th  August  1713.  Executor  to  lay  out 
£30  on  my  ffunerall.  To  thirty  widows  of  Lambeth  £10  to  be  divided  amongst  them.  To  my  son 
Della  Pool  Danishus  Faircloath  £20.  To  my  daughter  Anne,  wife  of  Abraham  Gray  £20.  To 
daughter  Sarah  wife  of  Samuel  Bray  £20.  To  daughter  Dinah,  wife  of  Caleb  Jackson  £20.  To 
my  said  four  children,  share  and  share  alike  everything  that  I  have.  My  son  in  law  Samuel 
Bray  to  be  sole  Executor.  Probatum  quinto  die  Junij  1716,  juramento  Samuelis  Bray. 

Fairclough  Obadia  :  probatum  testamenti  Obadise  Fairclough  nuper  de  Lambeth,  juramentis 
Dinae  Faircloufgh  relictae  et  Samuelis  Bray  executorum  dci  defunct.  Act  Books  ComisS  Surriao 
1708-18,  folio  866. 

P.C.C.  115  Fox. 


(Mill  of  jlebecca  Jfairdouglt,  1720. 

Rebecca  Fairclough  of  Sl  Olave  Southwark,  widow,  executrix  of  the  will  of  my  late  husband 
Joseph  Fairclough.  To  my  friend  Thomas  Sterry,  the  exor  for  his  care  and  paines,  two  guineas. 
I  have  improved  and  gotten  £80  in  my  widowhood,  I  give  it  to  said  Thomas  in  trust  towards  the 

H 


50 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


virtuous  education  of  my  younger  daughter  Alice  Fairclough,  until  she  be  sixteen  years  old  ;  and 
after  this,  what  is  left  for  the  use  of  all  my  daughters  as  he  shall  think  fit.  I  have  already 
advanced  my  daughter  Mary  Gillmore  in  marriage  with  John  Gilmore  £100 ;  and  one  third  of  my 
goods.  I  give  the  rest  to  my  other  daughters  equally,  when  twenty  one,  or  at  their  marriage. 
Said  friend  Thomas  Sterry,  Tallow  Chandler,  of  St.  Olaves  Southwark,  Executor.  This  16th  July  1720. 
Probat"1  xi°  Aug.  1720  per  declaratione  solemnis  Thomse  Sterry. 

P.C.C.  174  Shaller. 


glkhari)  jFamduglt,  1584. 

Richard  Fayreclugh,  viii0  Feb.,  26  Elizth,  1584,  a  very  poore  man,  constrayned  to  borrow 
three  poundes  of  Rose  Ritche,  wife  of  Ritche  of  Sl  Clements  Dains  [London],  Orator  deliuered 
hyr  in  pawne  goodes  to  the  value  of  £14,  couing  of  arras  worke,  curtaynes  of  greene  &  red,  needle- 
worke  vallances,  blacke  cloth  gowne,  &c.  Orator  to  pay  10s  interest  every  month.  She  now 
refuseth  to  take  the  £3  10.  offered  and  makes  divers  excuses  to  prolong  the  matter. 

Court  of  Requests.  Bundle  91,  31. 


Jairdouglt  c.  gjatots. 

Richard  Fairclough,  Citizen  &  Clothworker  of  London.  Agreem4  between  Complaynant  and 
one  Lawrence  Hawes,  Citizen  &  Fishmonger  of  London,  that  they  should  be  co-partners  for  six  years 
in  the  trade  of  byeing  and  (?  selling)  of  mercery  wares  in  the  shoppe  of  said  Lawrence  in  the 
parish  of  S4  Michael’s  le  Querne.  Interesting  details.  Lawrence  Hawes  refuseth  to  be  joynt  partner. 

His  answer.  The  scrivener  was  to  draw  up  agreements.  But  Defendant  never  had  them, 
and  is  not  bound  by  them.  One  Hugh  Fayerclough,  complaynant’s  vncle,  it  was  pmysed,  should 
stocke  said  shoppe  and  give  his  credit  to  the  value  of  one  thowsande  poundes.  He  now  refuseth. 
Neither  is  he  able  to  furnish  the  same. 

Chancery  Proceedings,  Bills  &  Answers,  F.  7,  40,  1585. 


Jfairdxmglt  c.  Jinight,  1587. 

13  Feb.,  29  Elizth.  Writ  of  “dedimus  potestatem  ”  to  examine  witnesses.  John  Fartelowe 
of  Weston,  co.  Hertford,  gent.,  &  Margarett  his  wife  &  Thomas  &  Edward  their  sons  complayne 
to  the  Lord  Chancellor  that  five  or  six  years  past  one  Richard  Rnight  of  Baldocke,  gent.,  did 
surrender  into  the  handes  of  the  lordes  of  the  Manor  of  Weston  54  acres  to  the  onlie  vse  of  said 
Margarett  wiffe  of  the  said  John,  for  her  life  ;  and  after  her  decease  to  the  vse  of  said  Thomas 


FAIRCLOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


51 


and  (George  ?),  for  which  John  Fartelowe  paid  £240.  But  Knight  had  long  before  surrendered 
said  landes  to  the  use  of  himselfe  and  Henry  Knight  gent,  his  sonne,  for  some  longe  terme  of 
yeares.  Subpoena  is  asked  for.  Knight’s  answer :  The  story  is  slanderous  and  untrue.  [See 
Will  of  John  Fairclough,  1587.  He  and  Margaret  his  wife  had  a  son  George,  as  well  as  sons 
Thomas  and  Edward.] 

Chancery  Proceedings,  Eliz.  B.  &  A.,  F.  8,  22. 


dorgc  c.  ^fairclough,  1588. 

Nov.  1588.  [Part  torn  away.]  Edward  Gorge  of  Wraxall,  co.  Somerset,  Esquior.  Hugh 
Faierclugli  Esquior,  Cytizen  &  Cloth  worker  of  London,  about  [blank]  yeares  last  past  did  lende 
your  Orator  monies.  About  1  Feb.  22  Elizth,  Frauncis  Gorge  Esqr  was  suerty  for  your  Orator,  bounden 
to  said  Hugh  for  4001  &c.  The  some  in  toto  is  civ11.  There  is  another  dett  of  your  Orator  to  one 
Marie  Woodcock  of  London.  Prolix  money  matters. 

Chancery  Proceedings,  Elizth  B.  &  A. 


JFIint  c.  JFairdoitglt,  1588. 

[Much  of  these  parchments  is  decayed  or  lost.]  Money  Matters.  Hugh  Fairclough’s  shopp 
in  Cheapside.  Stephen  Bow'S?,  Orator’s  late  husband.  Richard  Fairclough,  Hugh  Faircloth’s 

apprentice.  Replicacon  :  “  Speeches  covetyng  the  vtter  overthrowe  of  Complainant . ,  his 

Mr  beinge  then  the  pson  of  Halsale  co’  Lankaster.” 

Chancery  Proceedings,  Elizth  B.  &  A. 


CbtoarkB  r.  Jairdoitglt,  1590. 

1590.  Richard  Edwardes  of  London,  Complaynant.  Elizabeth  Edwardes,  sometyme  wyddowe 
of  Richard  Edwardes  of  Okeley  co.  Bedf  was  seised  of  tenement  and  land  in  the  town  of  Okeley 
and  dyed  of  a  great  plague  there.  It  descended  to  yor  Orator  as  her  sonn  &  heire.  William 
Edwardes  carried  the  wrytynges  to  one  William  Mordaunt  of  Okeley  aforesaide.  But  he  dyed  of 
the  great  plague,  leaving  them  [about  a  fourth  part  of  the  document  is  here  torn  away].  By  the 
death  of  William  Edwards  the  tytle  came  of  righte  vnto  Richard  Edwardes,  your  Orator,  as  son 
and  heir  of  said  William,  he  being  then  an  infant.  For  fear  of  the  plague  they  removed  him 
to  London,  for  almost  all  the  inhabitants  of  Okeley  dyed.  He  did  not  vndrestande  of  his  tytle 

vntill  within  theis  few  yeares . of  Gouldington  co.  Bedford  had  the  possession . 

taulked  with  said  John  Forteler  (sic).  Said  John  Fartelett  (?  Fartelow)  confederated  to  defraude  yor 
Orator  &  holdeth  possession. 

H2 


52 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Answeare  of  John  Faiercloughe.  Fifty  twoe  yeares  sythence  one  John  Stokes  had  said 

howse  &c.  of  the  feoffement  of  one  Richarde  Edwardes.  He  solde  it  to . from  (whom) 

Defendant  hathe  it  and  his  anncestors.  Isabell,  grandmother  of  Complaynant  named.  [J/wcA 
of  the  document  is  torn  away.] 

Chancery  Proceedings,  Eliz.  B.  &  A.  E.  5,  12. 


dtonutoall  et  Jfaircdough,  1590. 

12  Aug.,  32  Elizth.  Betweene  Gabrieli  Cornewall  of  Stockton  co.  Warr,  clarke  &  Thomas 
Fayercloughe,  Cytyzen  &  Goldsmyth  of  London.  Cornewall,  for  1401  paid  doth  sell  vnto  Fair- 
clough  a  messuage  with  tenem1  called  Bayesgarthe  in  Barton  vpon  Humber  co.  Lincoln.  [Endless 
and  exasperating  verbiage.] 

Close  Roll,  33  Elizth  15  pt. 


Jfatrdcmglt  i\  Jfaiixtough,  1592. 

xxix0  die  Jan,  34  Elizth.  John  Fairclough  of  Weston  co.  Herts,  gent.  Exor  of  the  will 
of  John  Farecloughe,  ffather  of  yor  subiect,  who  had  a  great  manye  children  and  did  giue 
them  diuers  porcons  goods  &  4001  readye  money.  Margaret  Farecloughe,  wief  of  said  John,  had 
the  keys  of  all  the  chestes,  Knoweing  where  the  money  was  hath  taken  to  hir  owne  vse  the  greater 
part  of  the  money  &c.  Yor  subject  hath  had  onlie  251,  to  the  hinderance  of  the  rest  of  the 
children.  Yor  Subiect  hath  not  direct  proof.  He  asks  for  Writt  of  Pryvie  Seal  to  be  directed 
to  hir. 

Her  Answer,  xiiij  die  Aprilis,  34th  Elizth.  Testator  had  such  chest  vnder  lock  and  key. 
He  kept  said  key  in  a  cupboard,  also  vnder  lock  and  key,  and  carried  that  keye  allwayes  with 
him,  tyed  to  his  purse  ;  whch  purse  was  ffastened  or  tyed  to  his  hose  which  he  did  weare.  Com¬ 
playnant,  before  the  decease,  did  take  the  keye  vntill  he  had  carryed  away  all  the  money  at  any 

tyme  during  his  sicknes  wherof  he  dyed.  As  to  the  other  keys  of  chests,  this  Defendant  sayethe 
she  hath  not  had  them  at  any  tyme.  Thinks  deceased’s  money  at  tyme  of  his  sicknes  was  very 
little. 

Replication  of  John  Fairclough,  26th  Apr.,  34  Elizth.  His  bill  is  true  and  the  answer  vntrue. 
Defend1  bestowed  hir  money  in  buildinge  so  large  as  she  did,  &  yett  putt  out  all  her  porcon  to 

vsurye,  which  she  could  not  have  done  if  she  had  not  taken  testator’s  money.  Deceased  had 

3001  or  4001  by  him. 


Court  of  Requests,  Bundle  55,  32. 


FAIRCLOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


53 


Jfairdough  c.  gtejmer,  1595. 

Hugh  Fairclough,  Citn  &  Clothworker  of  London,  being  a  Mercer  did  permit  Faith  his  wife 
to  use  the  trade  of  making  french  hoodes  of  velvet  &c.,  and  to  vtter  and  sell  them.  She  had  a 
good  porcon.  She  employed  Elizabeth,  wife  of  William  Reyner,  also  Citn  &  Clothworker  of  London, 
to  delyver  money  which  said  Faith  did  lend,  and  to  cause  bonds  to  be  made  in  the  name  of  sd 
Wm  Rayner  and  others.  Two  yeares  last  past,  yor  Orator  being  out  of  London,  and  Faith  buying 
silke  for  your  Orators  vse,  she  did  pay  out  of  the  stock  which  she  had  raised,  £100.  Orator  was  led 
into  giving  bail  for  £200.  Elizabeth  is  since  deceased.  Elizabeth  was  kinswoman  of  your  Orator. 
Money  matters  are  mixed  and  wrong.  Rayners  Answer. 

Chancery  Proceedings,  Elizth  B.  &  A. 


JRsrgmt  c.  Jfaievclouglt,  1595. 

19  May,  35  Elizth.  William  Morgan  (and  many  others)  poore  cottagers  of  the  towne  of 
Goldington  co.  Bedford  vsed  to  kepe  their  shepe  in  the  Common  places  in  said  towne.  Nowe  yt 
is  that  John  Fairclough  of  Goldington,  gent.,  having  the  wardshipp  of  Robte  Haselden,  gent, 
lord  of  the  Manor  there,  myndinge  to  suppresse  yor  poore  supplyants,  hath  pcured  pcesse  agaynst 
dyvers  poore  supplyants  in  the  Kyngs  Benche,  contrarye  to  all  right  &  auncient  custome.  They 
pray  Writt  of  Subpena. 

Fairclough’s  Answer,  2d  July  35  Elizth.  Complaynants  have  no  tytle  to  their  cottages. 
Most  of  them  are  tenants.  They  have  no  prescription.  The  comon  feeldes  of  _  Goldington  are  very 
small.  There  is  no  land  to  said  cottages. 

Court  of  Requests,  29,  41. 


Ikgltan  ani  others  et  JFaieicloitgh,  1595. 

27  Nov.,  37  Elizth.  Edward  Vaghan  de  London  Armiger  et  Thomam  Ellis  de  London,  generosus 
ex  vna  pte  et  Johem  Fairclough  de  Goldington  com  Bedd.  gen:  ex  al?a  pte.  They  sell  to  Fairclough 
their  portion  of  the  tythes  in  the  parish  of  Abbotesley  in  Coin  Hunt,  nup  priorat  de  Hunt. 

Close  Roll,  37th  Elizth,  2d  part. 


(Scei)  t\  JFairdoagh,  1605. 

A°  1603.  John  Seed  of  Upton  co.  Gloucester,  gent.,  CompP.  Hugh  Fayreclough  of  London 
in  Aug.,  43  Elzth,  had  messuage  called  Podiers  and  lands  in  Hurley  co.  Berks,  of  the  demise  of 
Richd  Aymye  of  Wansborough  co.  Surrey,  gent.  He  set  it  over  to  yor  Orator  &c.  Covenants  broken. 

Chancery  Proceedings,  James  I,  B.  &  A.,  S.  13,  39. 


54 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Jfairdmiglt  c.  |)ake,  1605. 

A°  1605.  Hugh  Faereclough,  Cittizen  &  Cloth  worker  of  London,  did  30  th  &  33d  Q.  Elizabeth 
borrow  moneys  of  Thomas  Tempest  of  co.  York,  and  one  Wm  Normavild  of  co.  York.  But  Norma- 
vild  died.  Money  matters.  Answers  of  William  Hake  &  others. 

Chancery  Proceedings,  James  I,  B.  &  A,  F.  3,  76. 


(ttotmt)  c.  Jfardmtgh,  1606. 

Feb.  1606.  (Much  damaged.)  John  Coyney  of  Weston  Coyney  co.  Stafford,  Esqr,  had 
goods  to  the  value  of  5001.  Being  aged  &  sickly,  he,  for  the  good  of  Mary  his  now  wife,  by 
Indenture  between  him,  of  the  one  part,  and  Thomas  Digby  and  Edward  Fayrecloth  ats  Fayre- 
cloughe,  of  the  other  part,  gave  them  goods  that,  after  his  decease,  they  should  administer  his 
estate  to  *  her  benefit.  (Documents  much  decayed.) 

Second  Bill,  dated  June  1607.  John  Coyny  of  Weston  Coyny,  Esqr,  three  years  sithence 
had  taken  to  wife  Mary  the  relict  of  Thomas  Webb,  late  citizen  &  haberdasher  of  London.  Orator 
having  his  owne  proper  goodes,  10001  &  divers  obligations,  bills,  &c.,  prepared  to  convey  them  to 
the  friends  of  said  Mary  for  her  vse.  His  goodwill  also  to  Elizabeth  Webb,  her  daughter.  The 
writing  was  delivered  to  [blank]  of  the  County  of  Stafford,  Esqr,  and  Edward  Fercloghe.  This 
wrighting  follows  in  full.  Makes  Said  Mary  his  executrix.  Fercloghe  now  says  it  is  a  false  copye. 
Redelivery  of  the  deed. 

Chancery  Proceedings,  Elizabeth,  B.  &  A.,  C.  9,  3. 

[7s  not  the  county  Hertford  rather  than  Stafford?  The  parchment  is  almost  illegible.  By 
Elizabeth  his  wife,  daughter  of  Webb  of  London,  Edward  Fairclough,  of  Weston,  co.  Herts,  had 
a  son  Edward,  who  was  aged  26  in  1634.  He  was  born  therefore  circa  1608.  See  Herts  Visitation, 
1634.] 

The  document  is  difficult  to  read.  The  dates  may  be  1600  and  1601,  not  1606  and  1607. 
Hertford,  and  not  Stafford,  is  almost  certainly  the  county  indicated.  Weston,  co.  Herts,  was  the 
headquarters  of  the  Faircloughs. 


Jfaiidouglt  c.  $all,  1625. 

A°  1623.  Samuel  Fairclough,  of  Banson  ats  Barnardiston,  co.  SufEk,  clarke.  George  May, 
late  parson  of  Barnson,  died,  and  Sir  Nathaniel  Barnardiston  of  Ketton  Kl  Rented  yor  Orator. 
May  had  held  the  parsonage  house  forty  years.  It  was  ruinated  &  not  habitable.  It  cost  £100 
to  repair  it.  Christian  Maye  the  widow  &  executrix  had  a  great  estate.  Question  of  the  dilapida¬ 
tions.  Yor  Orator  accepted  a  'promise  of  £10  in  money  and  £6  worth  of  houshold  stuffe.  She  has 
now  combined  with  Marke  Ball  of  Honydon  co.  Suffolk  to  break  her  promise.  Ball’s  sneering  and 
sarcastic  reply. 


Chancery  Proceedings,  James  I,  B.  &  A.,  F.  12,  31. 


FAIRCLOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


55 


JtfBliu  c.  Jfairclougli,  1654. 


1634. 

matters. 


Answer  of  Edward  Fairclough,  defendant,  to  Bill  of  John  Joslin.  Bonds  &  money 

Chancery  Proceedings,  Charles  I,  B.  &  A.,  I.  J.  7,  10. 


Bolalbmok  c.  JfaircUntgh,  1641. 

1641.  Sale  of  the  patronage  of  S*  Stephen’s  Walbrook,  London.  Demurrer  of  Affabel 
Fairclough  and  others.  The  scope  of  the  Bill  is  to  remove  Michael  Thomas,  one  of  the  Defendants, 
the  now  Rector,  from  his  Rectory.  Bill  of  the  Churchwardens  against  the  Wardens  &c.  of  the 
Grocers  Company.  Much  verbiage. 

Chancery  Proceedings,  Charles  I,  B.  &  A.,  W.  62,  24. 


CuCcbstcr  c.  Jfatrclomih,  40  (Kite. 

19  Feb.,  40  Eliz.  Replicacon  of  John  Webster  to  answers  of  James  Spurlinge,  Thos  Fayr- 
cloughe,  &c.,  Defendants.  Defendts  are  guilty  of  the  Riotts,  Wearing  of  Dagges  [sic]  and  dicharging 
them  upon  Complaynant. 

Star  Chamber  Proceedings,  Eliz.  W.  lxxiv,  28. 


•potter  c.  Jfairclouglt. 

Sheweth  Thomas  Potter  of  London  that  Thomas  Potter  of  Bishop’s  Hatfield  co.  Hartford, 
Orator’s  late  father  had  howsehold  goodes  of  the  value  of  £100 ;  and  made  Alice,  then  his  wiffe, 

and  after  the  wiffe  of  one . Faiercloughe  his  executrix.  Yor  Orator  being  then  two  yeares 

old.  He  gave  halfe  to  yor  Orator.  Alice  concealed  his  will  and  got  Administrat1  of  his  sd  goodes. 
She  caused  Orators  goodes  to  be  left  out  of  the  Inventory — they  were  worth  £40.  Orator  is  in 
danger  of  perishing  from  insufficient  nourishment.  There  has  been  no  care  of  his  educacon.  She 
refuseth  utterly  to  deliver  said  goodes. 

Chancery  Proceedings,  Charles  I,  B.  &  A.,  P.  7,  3. 


56 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Price  c.  Jfamclauglt. 

Answer  of  Affabel  Fayrclough,  a  defendant  to  the  Bill  of  Richard  Price  and  Mary  his 
wife.  He  knoweth  not  what  porcon  the  mother  of  said  Mary  gaue  in  marriage  unto  said  George 
Harwood.  She  putt  no  money  into  Defendant’s  hands.  She  gave  money  to  Oliver  Huntley  for 
the  use  of  Complainant.  One  Robert  Harlston  is  also  named.  Jura?  30  May  1629. 

Chancery  Proceedings,  Charles  I,  B.  &  A.,  P.  37,  49. 


Visitation  of  |Confion,  1634. 


Fairclough.=p 


I - 

John  Fairclough,=f=Margaret,  danr 
of  Weston,  co.  I  of  ...  .  Cherry 
Hertford. 


j _ 

”1 

. Fairclough.=p 


1.  Thomas  Fair-  2.  Edward  Fair-  3.  Gyles.  Affabel  Fairclough,=Margaret,  da.  of 
dough,  of  Wes-  dough.  of  London,  grocer,  John  Cason,  of 

ton,  eldest  sonne.  a0  1634.  London,  grocer. 


r-1 

Thomas  Fairclough, 
of  Weston,  gent., 
living  1634. 


Harl.  Soc. 


Jfii \t,  Aperts,  Hilarn  25  0:1  is.,  15S5. 

Inter  Georgiu  Forklove  °t  laurenciu  Forklove  quer  et  Johem  Chirrye  1  Margaretam  vSem 
eius  deforc,  de  vno  horreo,  vno  tofto,  quinquagenta  acris  tre,  octo  acris  prati  T:  triginta  acris 
pasture  in  Magna  Mundon.  Vnde  plitm  Conuencois  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in  eadem  Cur  Scilt  qd 
pdci  Johes  H  Margareta  recogn  ^dca  ten  esse  Jus  ipius  Georgij  vt  ill  que  ijdem  Georgius  T; 
laurencius  heut  de  dono  pdcor^  Johis  t  Margarete.  Et  p  hac  recogn,  remissione,  quietclam, 
Warrant,  fine  V  Concordia  iidem  Georgius  ‘t  laurencius  deder  pdcis  Johi  T;  Margarete  octoginta 
libras.  Hertf. 


glicus  JFamrlouqh,  ffioxtlxM,  1590 — 1599. 

xxij0  die  Septembris,  1592,  apud  Barnett  pbatum  fuit  Testatm  Richardi  Fayrcloughe,  dum 
vixit  de  Northawe  in  Coin  Hertford  iurat0  Agnetis  Fayrcloughe  vidue,  relicte  dci  Def  et 
Executricio  in  huioi  Testa40  noiat  cui  comisg  fuit  &c. 

LondonConsistory.  Vicar-General’s  Book,  1590-1599,  fo.  97  b. 


FAIRCLOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


57 


jjatorence  Jfairdauglt,  1655. 

Lawrence  Fairclough  buried  3d  Aug.  1633.  [Lawrence  Fairclough  was  instituted  to  the 
Vicarage  of  Haverhill,  Suffolk,  1568.  Norwich  Institution  Books,  No.  19,  as  Lawrence  Faircliff, 
clerk.  He  died  1605.] 

From  the  Registers  of  Weston,  Herts. 


|£atorence  Jktirclothe,  1605. 

Lawrence  Fairclothe  of  Haverhill,  clerk.  Admon,  Cur  Ep.  Norw.  1605,  to  Mary  his  relict. 
His  name  is  not  mentioned  in  the  “  Composition  Books  ”  (payment  of  first  fruits)  which  have  been 
searched  page  by  page,  and  entry  by  entry,  the  Haverhill  Vicarage  being  of  very  small  value. 
Had  he  done  so  his  sureties  might  have  given  us  a  clue  to  his  lineage. 


Still  of  Ultomas  Jfairdouglt,  1559. 

The  vith  daye  of  Aprile  1559.  I,  Thomas  Fayreclogh  of  Goldington  in  the  Countie  of  Bed- 
forde  and  Dioces  of  Lynkolne,  gentleman,  sicke  in  bodie  make  this  my  laste  will.  Vnto  John 

my  sone  xx11.  Vnto  Thomas  my  sone  xx11.  Vnto  Lawrence  my  sonne  xx11.  Vnto  Richard  my 

sonne  xx11.  To  Marie  my  doughter  xx1'.  To  my  brother  Richard  fayrcloge  vis  viijd.  To  my 
brother  Wiftm  vis  viijd.  To  my  brother  George  vis  viijd.  To  my  brother  Giles  vis  viijd.  To  my 
sister  Anne  vis  viijd.  To  my  sister  Dorethey  vis  viijd.  To  my  sister  Elizabethe  vis.  viijd.  To 
my  sister  Luce  vis  viijd.  I  bequeath  the  wardship  of  Wiftm  Haselldon  vnto  Myllycent  my  wiffe. 
To  be  distributed  .  amonge  the  poore  people,  v1.  My  sonnes  to  be  payed  when  they  come  to  one 
and  twentie  yeres  of  age.  My  doughter  to  haue  her  payment  at  the  daye  of  her  mariage.  The 

rest  of  my  goodes  I  bequeath  to  Millicent  my  wife  which  I  doo  make  to  be  my  sole  executrix. 

And  I  make  John  Fayrclogh,  Edward  Fayrclogh,  John  Franclin  and  Nicholas  Coicke  Overseers 
to  see  thys  my  last  will  fullfilled  to  God’s  pleasure,  my  sowle  helth  and  yor  discharge  befor 
allmightie  god. 

Probatum  apud  London  decimo  octauo  die  Octobris  1559,  juramento . Hatley, 

procuratoris  Millicentie  relicte  et  executricis  in  hmodi  testamento  nominat. 

P.C.C.  48  Chaynay. 


Still  of  ahomas  Jfaerdottghe,  1585. 

The  eleaventh  day  of  June  1585.  I,  Thomas  Faercloghe,  of  London,  marchaunt-tailor, 
doe  make  this  my  last  will.  My  bodye  to  be  buried  in  the  churche  or  chauncell  of  Goldington. 
To  Thomas  Faerclough,  my  brother  John  Faercloughe’s  sonne,  tenne  poundes  at  the  age  of  xxi 


I 


58 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


yeares.  To  John  Faerclough,  my  brother’s  sonne,  ffourtie  poundes  at  the  age  of  xxi  yeares.  To 
Agnes  Faerclough,  my  brother  John’s  daughter,  twentie  poundes.  To  Jane  Faerclough  twentie 
poundes.  To  Fraunces  Faerclough  twentie  poundes.  To  Marie  Faerclough  twentie  poundes.  To 
Millicent  Faerclough  twentie  poundes.  To  Rose  Faerclough  twentie  poundes.  To  Elizabeth  Faer¬ 
clough  twentye  poundes.  To  be  paied  vnto  them  at  the  daye  of  marriage,  yf  they  lyve  vntill 
suche  tyme.  To  my  brother  Lawrence  Fearclough  one  hundreth  poundes.  To  my  brother 
Richard  Faerclough  ffyftie  poundes.  To  Robert  Hasseldine  my  sister  Marie’s  sonne  tenne 
poundes.  To  William  Hasseldine  tenne  poundes.  To  Thomas  Hasseldine  my  godsonne 
xiij 1  vis  viijd.  To  Alice  Hasseldine  twentie  poundes.  My  sister  Alin  her  mother.  To  Giles 
Allen  ten  poundes.  To  Anne  Allen  tenne  poundes.  That  childe  wch  my  sister  Allin 
goeth  with  all,  tenne  poundes.  To  my  fEather  Hattley  flyve  poundes.  My  mother  Hattley,  my 
brother  Roberte  Hatley,  my  sister  Garthrud.  My  sister  Constance  Grubbe  to  the  vse  of  her 
daughter  Elizabeth  Grubbe  tenne  poundes.  To  be  paide  said  Elizabeth  at  the  daie  of  her  marriage. 
To  my  sister  Elizabeth  Denton  [?  Kenton,  or  Lenton]  flyve  poundes.  To  my  brother  Allin  fyve 
poundes.  To  my  sister  Faercloughe  tenne  poundes.  To  my  sister  Allin  tenne  poundes.  To  the 
poore  of  the  towns  of  Goldington  vi1  xiij8  iiijd.  To  Mr  Robertes,  mynyster,  twentie  shillinges. 
To  Mrs  Henley  flyve  poundes,  to  buye  her  a  peece  of  plate.  The  residue  of  my  goodes  with  my 
lease  of  my  house  sometymes  Raphe  Symson’s  in  London,  with  all  my  goodes  in  the  same  house 
I  give  to  John  Faercloughe  my  brother,  whome  I  appointe  my  sole  executor.  My  ffather  Hattley 
to  be  ouerseer.  [Signed]  in  the  presence  of  vs,  Thomas  Allin,  John  Taylor  and  Olyver  Robertes 
script.  Probatum  xviij0  die  Junij  1585,  juramento  Johannis  Faercloughe  pris  et  executoris. 

P.C.C.  31  Brudenel. 


Jfaivclough  contra  ganngstcr. 

To  Sir  Thomas  Bromley,  K4,  Lorde  Chauncellor  of  Ingland  (1579-1587).  Sheweth  Lawrence 
Farclough  of  Haverell  in  the  Countie  of  Suflolke,  clerke,  that  he  did  become  bonde  vnto  one 
Richarde  Bannyster  of  Buggeden  in  the  Countie  of  Huntingdon  for  the  paymente  of  eightie  powndes 
in  fower  yeares.  By  the  mistake  of  the  notarye  the  condicon  indorsed  was  made  for  the  paymente 
of  eight  powndes  yearely  for  the  space  of  fower  yeares.  Saide  Rycharde  Bannyster  aboute  haulfe 
a  yeare  sythence  died  at  Cambridge,  possessed  of  goodes  in  divers  dyoces ;  by  reason  whereof 
one  Richarde  Farcloughe,  as  nevewe  &  next  of  Kyn,  had  Ires  of  Administration  of  the  Prerogative 
Courte.  After  that  one  Johan  Bannyster,  wyef  of  the  saide  Richarde,  did  by  some  indirect  sugges¬ 
tion  procure  other  Ires  of  Administration  :  by  coullor  whereof  and  confederacye  betwene  her  and  one 
Wiitm  Farcloughe  of  Thurleighe  co.  Bedford,  clerke,  in  whose  custodye  the  bonde  was  deliuered 
to  kepe,  she  haue  gotten  saide  bonde,  and  now  threateneth  sute  vppon  it  againste  yor  poore  Orator, 
who  hath  dealte  according  to  the  true  meaninge  of  said  obligation  (thoughe  not  in  euerye  circum- 
staunce  accordinge  to  the  Ire  of  said  condicon)  and  have  pformed  the  same.  Your  Orator  is  voyde 
of  all  remedye  by  the  course  of  the  Comon  lawe,  and  prays  the  Quenes  Majestye’s  gracious  wryte 
of  subpena  to  be  directed  to  said  Johan  Bannyster  and  Wiftm  Farclough,  to  appeare  and  answeare 
vnto  these  pmisses. 


FAIRCLOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


59 


Replicacon  of  Lawrence  Farclougfie  to  Johan  Bannister’s  Answere.  Saide  answere  is  verie 
insufficient.  Yf  hir  late  husbande  had  not  goodes  in  dyvers  dyoces,  then  she  had  not  cause  to 
adminisir  fourthe  of  the  Prerogatyve  Courte  ;  so  no  cause  to  detayne  the  said  bonde.  Complaynante 
hathe  in  all  reasonable  meaninge  pformed  said  Condicon.  The  dayes  of  payment  are  past,  and 
not  to  come.  Complainant  prayethe  as  before. 

Chancery  Proceedings. 


Will  of  John  Jfamioughe,  1587* 

The  vijth  Nov.  1587.  John  Farecloughe  of  Weston,  co.  Hartff.,  gent.  Vnto  Margarett  my 
wife  one  hundrethe  poundes  [etc.].  Vnto  George  Fayercloughe  my  second  sonne  twentie  poundes. 
Vnto  Lawrence  F.  my  third  sonne  twentie  poundes.  Vnto  Alice  F.  my  dawghter  threscore  poundes 
at  the  daie  of  her  marriage  [etc.].  Vnto  Luce  F.  my  daur  fyftie  poundes  at  her  daie  of  marriage. 
Vnto  Thomas  Farecloughe  my  sonne  twentie  poundes  at  the  age  of  xxi  yeares.  Vnto  Edward  Farecloughe 
my  sonne  twentie  poundes  att  the  age  aforesaide.  Vnto  Giles  Fareclough  my  sone  the  like.  Vnto  Affabell 
Fareclough  my  youngest  sonne  fortie  poundes  [at  the  same  age].  Vnto  Hellin  my  dawghter  twentie 
poundes  at  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares  or  daie  of  marriage.  My  will  is  that  John  Faiercloughe, 
my  eldest  sonne,  shall  paye  vnto  Margarett  my  wife  yearly  tenne  poundes  towards  the  vertuus 
and  godly  bringing  vpp.  of  my  [younger]  childern  [above  named]  and  as  they  shall  haue  their 
portions  paide  vnto  them  so  I  will  the  consideration  to  be  abated  and  to  cease  accordinglye.  Vnto 
Affabel  Fayercloughe  my  saide  sonne  twoe  acres  of  free  land  in  1Lynce  feelde,  and  fortie  poundes 
whiche  I  haue  lent  vnto  John  Harmer  of  Rushden.  Vnto  John  Archer  of  Bigleswade,  my  sonne 
in  lawe,  tenne  poundes.  Vnto  James  Pratt,  my  sonne  in  lawe,  the  debt  whiche  Thomas  Dawson 
of  Baldock,  glover,  doethe  owe  vnto  me.  The  hundrethe  poundes  which  Sr,  Phillip  Boteler  the 
elder  Kt  oweth  me  I  give  to  be  equally  devided  amonge  Thomas,  Edward,  Giles,  Hellen  and  Affabell 
my  children  as  they  shall  accomplishe  the  age  of  xxi  yeares.  In  consideration  of  the  frendly  vsage 
that  my  coosen  John  Faiercloughe  of  Gowldington,  co.  Bedd.,  gentleman,  hathe  shewed  vnto  mee, 
he  shall  haue  all  tilthe  and  brache  groundes  as  shall  be  vnsowen  at  the  daie  of  my  death.  John 
Faiercloughe,  my  eldest  sonne,  shall  haue  of  trust  the  execution  of  this  my  will.  I  make  him 
sole  executor.  He  shall  haue  his  parte  of  the  ouerplus  of  my  goodes  and  cattells  vnbequeathed. 
I  appoint  my  coosen  John  Farecloughe,  Thomas  Harmer  my  brother  in  lawe,  and  George  Fayre- 
cloughe,  my  sonne,  ouerseers. 

Probatum  xxx°  die  Januarii  1587,  iuramento  Johis  Farecloughe  filii  natural  et  legitt :  etc. 

P.C.C.  5  Rutland. 


Will  of  John  JfaiiTlough,  1621. 

The  14th  daie  of  Decr  1621.  John  Faireclough,  of  the  City  of  Hereford,  gent.  I  give  vnto 
my  brother  George  Faireclough  tenn  poundes  and  my  apparell.  The  rest  of  my  goods  to  my 
daughter  Margaret  Griffithes  &  her  heires  for  ever.  I  doe  appoint  my  sonne  in  law  Silvanus 
Griffithes,  Dean  of  the  Cathedrall  Church  of  Hereford,  my  sole  Executor. 

Probatum  xxi0  die  Junij  1621,  juramento  venelis  viri  Silvani  Griffiths  decani  ecciie  Cathls 
Heref.  et  executoris. 

P.C.C.  59  Savile. 

I2 


1 


Qy.  Lyme. 


60 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


®toiit  Robert,  1644. 

A°  1644.  Owin  Hobert,  of  London,  gent.,  three  years  since  did  lend  John  Fairecloth,  late 
of  Goldhanger,  co.  Essex,  gent.,  Thomas  F.  of  Weston,  co.  Herts,  gent.,  &  Litten  F.,  of  Weston, 
gent.,  £150,  who  gave  bond  1  Novr,  16  Cha8,  for  payment.  They  refuse  to  pay.  Complainant 
has  sued  them  at  Common  Law.  CompP  had  to  meet  them  at  the  house  of  John  Underwood 
in  Fetter  Lane,  London.  The  Faircloughs  were  kinsmen  to  complainant.  They  made  difficulties 
and  got  possession  of  the  bond.  Answer  of  Thos  Fairclough  Esq.  &  John  &  Lytton  F.  Before 
the  lending  of  the  money  Complainant  became  a  suitor  to  Constance  Gwynn,  then  a  widow,  near 
of  kynne  to  Defendants.  She  had  £1000  &  two  daus  by  her  former  husband.  Complainant  who 
had  but  little  money  agreed  that  Defendants  should  manage  her  estate  for  her  &  her  child".  The 
£150  Defendants  borrowed  was  part  of  the  Estate  CompP  had  with  said  Constance.  Answer 
signed  by  Edw.  ffaierclough  (Defendants’  Counsel). 

Chancery  Proceedings,  Charles  I,  B.  &  A.,  H.  119,  148. 


(Mill  of  Jjttdtarb  Jfairdough,  1636. 

The  16th  day  of  Januarie  1636.  I,  Richard  Fairclough,  Rector  of  Bucknell,  co.  Oxford, 
being  in  good  health,  deliberately  and  advisedly  make  this  my  last  will.  Vnto  the  poore  of  Buck¬ 
nell  40s.,  of  Gouldington  co.  Bedford  20s,  of  Bartford  co.  Bedford  20s,  of  Weston  com.  Hertford 
40s.  Vnto  my  cozen  Ann  Fayreclough  of  Gouldington,  wife  vnto  Lawrence  Faireclough  of  Ravens- 
den,  deceased,  40s  to  her  &  her  child".  Vnto  Marie,  wife  of  my  cozen,  Tho  :  Fairclough,  40s. 

Vnto  my  nephewe  Jo  :  Fairclough,  sonne  of  the  said  Tho  :  and  Marie  a  peece  of  gould  of  xxs, 

and  to  his  wife  a  peece  of  xxs.  Vnto  my  cozen  Lytton  Faireclough  40s,  and  my  houses  and  tene¬ 
ments  in  Bartford  after  the  decease  of  his  father,  my  cozen  Tho  :  Fairclough.  Vnto  my  sonne 
in  lawe  Mr  Rob  :  Warner  of  Kingswood  in  the  Countie  of  Warwicke,  and  to  Mr  Jo  :  Warner  and 
Mr  Samuell  Warner,  of  London,  to  each,  one  of  my  silver  wyne  bowles,  and  to  the  wives  of  Jo  : 
and  Sam  :  Warner  each  of  them  a  peece  of  gould  of  tenn  shillings.  Vnto  my  sonne  in  lawe 
Mr  Richard  Warner  of  London,  one  of  my  silver  drinking  bowles.  Vnto  my  sonne  in  lawe,  Mr 
Danyell  Warner,  of  Middleston  stone,  co.  Oxford,  the  great  cupboard  and  two  little  tables  in  the 
haule,  and  to  his  wife  Mrs  Marie  Warner  a  peece  of  gould  of  xxs  and  halfe  a  dozen  of  pewter 
platters.  \  nto  Anne  Warner,  daughter  of  the  said  Danyell,  my  godson  Richard  Warner,  sonne  of 
said  Danyell,  and  his  brothers  John  and  Nicholas.  Vnto  New  Colledge  in  Oxford  the  bibles  in 
Hebrew,  Greeke  and  Latine  that  are  in  my  studdie  bound  in  two  volumes  with  boorded  covers, 
to  be  cheyned  in  the  library  att  the  warden’s  pleasure.  And  concerning  my  parsonage  house 

in  Bucknell  I  will  that  all  the  wainscott  fastened  to  the  walls  in  the  haule  or  parlour  or  anie 

of  the  chambers  be  left,  togeath9  with  the  glasse  in  all  places  about  the  windowes,  all  the  pales 
about  the  ground  and  the  broad  elme  table  in  the  hall,  all  which  I  will  shalbe  left  vnto  my 
successor  in  the  parsonage,  yet  vpon  this  condicon,  that  my  executors  bee  not  vnkindly  dealt  withall 
or  sued  delapidacon.  As  for  all  the  rest  of  my  goods  I  bequeath  them  to  my  loving  cozen  Tho  :  Fair¬ 
clough  of  Weston  cont  Hertf.,  gent.,  and  Richard  Allen  of  Worden  comit  Bedford,  gent,  [whom] 
I  ordaine  joynt  execufours  of  this  will.  The  marke  of  Richard  Faireclough. 

Item  I  give  more  vnto  my  Cozen  Mary  Fayerclough  for  her  great  love  and  care  shee  hath 
of  me,  my  Bedd  I  lye  on.  Vnto  Elizabeth  Hafnon  for  her  care  and  paines  shee  taketh  with  me, 
my  great  Chest,  &c.  Witness  to  this  Codicill,  Math  :  Scrivener,  Tho  :  Riment. 

P.C.C.  79  Lee. 


f 


FAIRCLOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


61 


S&liU  of  (Ehtoarii  Jfaivdough,  1651- 

The  28th  Octr  1651.  Edward  Fairclough,  of  Lyncoln’s  Inne,  co.  Middx,  Esqr.  As  for  the 
leases  of  my  severall  houses  in  Graved  Lane  in  the  parish  of  St.  Botolph  without  Aldgate,  London, 
I  give  them  vnto  my  lovinge  wife  Mary  for  her  life,  and  after  her  decease,  to  my  daughter  Susanna 
and  her  heires  for  ever.  The  rest  of  estate  to  my  wife  whom  I  make  my  sole  executrix.  My 
lovinge  kinsman  John  Vnderwood,  gent.,  to  see  this  will  performed.  The  mark  of  Edward  Fairclough. 
Sealed,  &c.,  in  presence  of  Wm  Moseley,  Scr.  Abstemious  Pardy,  his  mark. 

On  the  9th  Octr  1652,  a  Commission  issued  forth  vnto  Suzan  Fairclough,  spinster,  daur  of 
Edward  Fairclough,  Esqr,  late  of  Lyncolnes  Inne,  for  that  Mary  the  Relict  and  Executrix  dyed 
before  she  had  taken  vpon  her  the  execucon  of  the  said  [sic]. 

P.C.C.  156  Bowyer. 


Still  of  (Elizabeth  Jfaiiedouglt,  1652. 

Elizabeth  Faireclough,  of  London,  widow.  The  19th  day  of  Augst  1652,  very  sick  and  weake 
in  body.  First  I  give  to  the  congregation  of  Allhallowes,  where  I  am  a  member,  40s.  To  Mary 
King,  my  late  husband’s  brother’s  daughter  £5,  to  be  paid  out  of  such  messuages,  tenements  and 
lands  as  are  belonging  vnto  me.  To  my  cosen  Thomas  Dounton  £12.  To  my  cosen  Richard 
Dounton  £12.  To  my  cosen  Mary  Watts,  the  daughter  of  my  brother  Roger  Watts,  £12.  To 
Samuel  Fairclough,  the  sonne  of  Samuell  Fairclough  40s.  Vnto  Elizabeth  Faireclough,  daughter  of 
said  Samuell  Fayreclough  the  elder,  20s.  To  Mary  Brittingham,  daur  of  Thomas  Brittingham 
£9.  To  my  cosen  William  Watts,  sonne  of  my  said  brother  Roger  Watts,  £12.  To  my  loveing 
couzine  Bridgett  Dounton  £12.  To  my  cosine  Elizabeth  Bryant,  daur  of  George  Bryant,  £10  when 
shee  shall  attaine  the  age  of  twentie  yeares  or  at  her  day  of  marriage.  To  my  cosen  Richard 
Masters  £5.  To  Dorothy  Masters,  wife  of  Richard  Masters,  20s.  To  my  cosen  Dennis  Hornisey 
20s  to  buy  her  a  ringe  in  remembrance  of  me,  to  be  paid  within  seven  yeares  after  my  decease. 
To  Elizabeth  Paine  in  Stone  Court  neere  Great  Allhallowes  in  Thames  Street  my  blacke  mourning 
gowne.  The  rest  of  my  household  goodes  I  bequeath  amongst  my  cosens  Bridgett  Dounton,  Mary 
Watts,  Mary  Brittingham  and  Elizabeth  Dounton,  wife  of  Richard  Dounton.  I  doe  ordaine  my 
loveing  sister  Mary  Brittingham  sole  executrix.  I  intreate  my  cosen  Richard  Masters  to  be  Overseer 
of  this  will  and  to  bee  aideing  to  my  Executrix.  The  mark  of  the  said  Elizabeth  Fairclough.1 

This  will  was  proved  the  27  th  day  of  August  1652  by  the  oath  of  Mary  Brittingham,  the 
Executrix. 

P.C.C.  220  Bowyer. 


@8x11  of  @8tlltam  Jfatrdough,  1652. 

The  16th  day  of  July  1652.  William  Fairclough,  of  London,  Taylor.  I  give  my  goods 
and  estate  vnto  my  deare  wife  Elizabeth,  and  I  make  her  the  sole  Executrix  of  this  my  last  will. 
The  marke  of  William  Fairclough. 

This  will  was  proved  at  London,  19th  Aug.  1652,  by  the  oath  of  Elizabeth  Faireclough 
the  Relict.1 

P.C.C.  156  Bowyer. 

1  The  witnesses  of  both  wills  were  Robert  Smith  and  a  servant  to  William  Tibbs  the  scrivener. 


62 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


fflill  of  -Susannah  JFaivdonglt,  1657. 

Susanna  Fairclough,  of  the  parish  of  St.  Clement  Danes,  co.  Middx.,  spinster,  sicke  and  weake 
in  bodie.  I  bequeath  debts  owing  vnto  me  and  all  other  my  estate  vnto  my  louing  kinsman  John 
Vnderwood,  gentleman,  whome  I  make  sole  Executor.  This  7th  day  of  Septr  1657.  My  will  is 
that  all  my  wearing  apparell  be  devided  betweene  my  kinswomen  Frances  and  Judetli  Cheyney. 
Wm  Moseley  Scr,  John  Richardson  [?  witnesses].  Proved  att  London  4th  Decr  1658,  by  the  oath  of 
John  Vnderwood  the  sole  Executor. 

P.C.C.  631  Wotton. 


^uhbitru  JUchieaconru  (Kauri.  ^ministrations,  1605-1739. 

(None  for  1612-30.) 

25  Novr  1679.  Ad  con  of  estate  of  John  Faireclough,  late  of  Bury  S.  Edmunds,  granted 
to  Mary  his  relict. 

15  Oct.  1683.  Adcon  of  estate  of  Samuel  Faireclough,  late  of  Keddington,  alias  Ketton, 
co.  Suff.,  decd,  granted  to  Daniel  Faireclough  his  son. 

27  Feb.  1704.  Adcon  of  estate  of  Mary  Fairclough  of  Bury  S.  Edmunds,  granted  to  Elizabeth 
Firmin[?]:  principal  creditor. 

30  July  1705.  Admon  of  estate  of  Charles  Fairclough  of  Kennett  co.  Cambs  :  granted  to 
Richard  Fairclough,  clerk,  his  brother. 

24  August  1705  :  Adcon  of  estate  of  Anne  Faircliffe  of  Bury  S.  Edmunds,  widow,  granted  to 
Anne  Faircliffe  her  daughter. 


8HiU  of  JEtarg  Jfnirdoxtgk,  1667. 

Mary  Fairqlough,  late  Mary  Brooke,  now  wife  of  Samuell  Fairclough,  late  Minister  of  the 
word  at  Ketton,  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke,  by  vertue  of  Articles  concluded  upon  my  marriage 

between  the  said  Samuell  Fairclough  of  the  one  parte,  and  me  the  said  Mary  and  John  Sorell  of 

Much  Waltham,  co.  Essex,  gent.,  and  Anthony  Knightbridge  of  Chelmesford,  gent.,  on  the  other 
parte,  do  make  this  my  last  will  the  4th  Sept.  1667.  I  give  vnto  William  Carryer  my  sisters 

sonne,  tenne  poundes.  Vnto  my  brother  John  Sorell,  of  much  Waltham  parsonage,  co.  Essex, 

and  to  his  sonne  John,  thirty  poundes  in  trust  for  Elizabeth  Pease  sister  of  the  aforesaid  William 
Carryer.  Vnto  John  and  Mary,  the  children  of  my  brother  John  Sorell,  to  each  of  them  fifteene 
pounds.  Vnto  Robert  and  Susan,  children  of  my  brother  Robert  Sorell,  deceased,  to  each  three 
pounds.  Vnto  my  sonne  in  lawe,  Edward  Brookes,  the  chest  of  drawers  and  side  table  which  were 
his  fathers.  Vnto  John  Sorell,  grand  child  of  my  aforesaid  brother  John  Sorell,  the  silver  Tankard 
which  was  my  husband  Brookes.  All  my  wearing  clothes  to  be  divided  betweene  Mary  and  Eliza¬ 
beth,  sisters  of  the  aforesaid  William  Carryer.  Vnto  my  brother  John  Sorell  my  dyamond  ring. 
Vnto  William  Mott  his  grand  child  the  silver  Bowie  which  was  my  father’s.  Vnto  my  cousin 


FAIRCLOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


63 


Sarah  Bennett,  daughter  of  my  brother  in  law  George  Carrier,  three  poundes.  I  hereby,  declare 
that  my  husband  Mr  Samuel  Fairclough  hath  receaved  of  my  personall  estate  the  some  of  one 
hundred  poundes,  which  according  to  our  marriage  agreement  he  is  to  retayne.  One  other  hundred 
pounds  and  upwards  which  hee  hath  receaved  of  my  personall  estate  he  payes  (according  to  said 
articles)  vnto  my  Executor.  Vpon  payment  thereof  I  give  him  twenty  shillings  to'  buy  him  a  ring. 
Vnto  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  my  brother  Thomas  Sorell,  twenty  pounds,  and  to  Mary  Esterford 
five  pounds.  The  residue  of  my  personal  estate  not  hereby  bequeathed  to  be  disposed  of  amongst 
my  brothers  and  sisters  children.  I  make  my  loving  brother  John  Sorell  sole  Executor.  Signed 
[etc.]  in  the  presence  of  Francis  Long  and  Barnard  Shore. 

Probatum  decimo  quinto  die  Marti]  1669,  juramento  Johanis  Sorel,  Executoris. 

P.C.C.  36  Penn. 


Mill  of  gticharh  Jfatrcbugh,  1681. 

I,  Richard  Fairclough,  haue  very  little  of  this  world  to  dispose  of  att  my  death,  yet  what 
I  haue  I  would  haue  thus  disposed.  My  deare  Brother  Mr  Sam11  Faireclough,  now  liueing  in  London 
and  my  fireind  Mr  John  Tucker,  now  liueing  in  Bristoll,  to  be  my  Executors.  If  I  dye  in  the 
Easterne  part  [of  England]  I  desire  Mr  How  may  preach  a  sermon  with  a  remembrance  of  mee, 
where  my  brother  and  he  shall  think  convenient.  To  every  Brother  &  sister  that  I  have,  and  to 
their  husbands  and  wifes  tenn  shillings  a  peice  to  buy  them  rings.  Rings  to  Madam  Elizabeth 
Barnardiston  &  her  daughter  Mrs  Ann.  To  Mrs  Grace  Andrews.  To  my  nephew  Nathaniell  Fair¬ 
clough  &  his  wife.  My  nephew  Mr  Christopher  Shreive  and  his  wife,  if  he  haue  any  at  the  time, 
To  nephew  Nathaniel  Fairclough  the  £20  he  has  of  mine.  To  nephew  John  -Fairclough  the  £100 
he  has  of  mine.  To  Richard  Fairclough,  son  of  my  brother  John,  £100  when  of  age.  To  my 
brother  John  all  my  sermon  Bookes  and  Expositions.  Bequests  to  nephew  Samuell  and  my  neice 
Sarah  Sherive,  &  neice  Frances  Sherive.  Bequests  of  books.  The  9th  day  of  Aprill  1681.  Proba¬ 
tum  secundo  die  Novembris  1682.  Jurto  Samuelis  Fairclough  fris  defti. 

P.C.C.  129  Cottle. 


Uiiclmri)  Jfaivdongh,  1682. 

Richard  Fairclough,  Fellow  of  Emanuel  Coll  :  Buried  in  Bunhill  fields  cemetery.  The 
following  is  the  inscription  on  his  monument  there.  Here  lieth  the  body  of  Mr  Ric.  Fairclough, 
the  worthy  son  of  the  late  Rev.  Divine  Mr  Samuel  Fairclough  of  Suffolk.  He  was  sometime 
Fellow  of  Emanuel  College  in  Cambridge,  afterwards  Rector  of  Mells  in  Somersetshire.  A  Person 
like  his  Father,  eminent  for  his  natural  parts,  acquired  learning  &  infused  grace ;  endued  with 
a  most  piercing  judgment,  rich  fancy  &  clear  expression  and  therefore  a  good  expositor,  a  rare 
Orator,  an  excellent  preacher.  His  spirit  and  temper  was  most  kind  &  obliging,  most  public  and 
generous,  a  great  contemner  of  Riches  &  desire  of  vain  glory ;  Cheerful,  yet  watchful ;  zealous  yet 
prudent,  a  pleasant  companion,  &  a  most  faithful  friend,  a  pious  guide  &  instructor  by  Doctrine  & 
example.  Ob  :  July  4  :  1682  setat :  61. 

To  the  most  deserving  memory  of  him  &  his  Family  this  monument  was  erected,  as  a 
testimony  of  gratitude  for  many  obligations  by  Thos  Persival  of  the  Middle  Temple,  gent :  An. 
Dom  :  1682. 


64 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


SSiU  of  (Samuel  Jfairdough,  1689. 

I,  Samuel  Fairclough,  doe  make  my  last 
will  in  manner  following.  I  doe  dedicate,  devote 
and  resigne  my  Immortal  soule  vnto  God,  Father, 
Son  and  Spiritt.  I  will  that  m)^  body  be 
carryed  to  Heveningham  in  Suffolke  to  be  interred 
in  the  Litle  Vault  which  I  have  made  in  the 
Chancell  for  my  beloved  wife  and  my  selfe.  I 
doe  give  my  house  and  land  in  Ketton,  now  in 
the  tenure  of  Mr  Charles  Darby,  Rector  of 
Ketton,  vnto  the  said  Charles  Darby  and  his 
successors  Rectors  of  the  said  Church  for  ever, 
with  the  limitations  following,  viz1  that  they, 
or  some  Minister  deputed  by  them,  shall  on 
every  Easter  Sunday  in  the  afternoone  preach 
an  obyt  sermon,  and  shall  after  distribute  to 

the  poore  who  shall  then  be  present  the  sume 
of  twenty  shillings,  and  shall  pay  twenty  shillings 
more  per  annum  to  the  Rectors  of  Heveningham 
as  an  annuall  Rent  of  the  Vault  in  the  Chancell 
aforesaid.  My  will  is  that  if  said  Vault  or 
Grave  be  broken  open  wherein  I  and  my  wife 
shall  be  interred,  or  our  bones  be  disturbed, 
the  said  annual  rent  shall  cease.  I  doe  will 

to  my  brother  Mr  John  Fairclough  of  Kennitt  all  my  houses  and  lands  in  Burwell  and  in 
Exening  in  co.  Cambridge  during  his  naturall  life,  and  after  his  departure  I  give  the  same  vnto 
his  sonne,  my  nephew  Samuel  Fairclough  for  his  life  and  after  the  deceace  of  said  Samuel,  then  the 
first  son  of  his  body  &  his  heires  male.  For  want  of  such  issue  to  the  vse  of  the  second,  third, 
ffourth  [etc.]  son,  one  after  another.  And  for  want  of  such  I  give  the  same  vnto  Nathaniel  Fair¬ 
clough  (my  nephew,  Bror  of  the  said  Samuel)  and  to  his  heires  for  ever.  My  houses  and  lands 
in  great  Wratten  I  give  vnto  my  Bror  in  law,  Mr  George  Jones  of  Heveningham,  clerke,  and  to 
my  cosin  Christopher  Burrell  of  Tivetshall,  co.  Northfolke,  clerke,  and  their  heires  for  ever.  \pon 
trust  nevertheless  that  they  shall  take  all  the  rents  of  said  houses  &  lands  vntill  my  Nephew 
Samuel  Fairclough,  grandson  of  my  Bror  Nathaniel  deceased,  shall  attaine  his  age  of  twenty  foure 
yeares  or  depart  this  life,  which  shall  first  happen,  and  shall  then  settle  and  assure  said  houses, 
messuages  [etc.]  to  the  vse  of  my  said  nephew  Samuel  for  the  terme  of  his  life,  then  to  some 

trustee  to  the  vse  of  the  first  son  of  the  body  of  the  said  Samuel  [etc.,  etc.]  in  priority  of  birth. 

And  for  default  of  such  issue  then  to  the  vse  of  my  nephew  John  Fairclough,  Citizen  and  Draper 
of  London,  vncle  of  said  Samuel  for  his  life,  and  after  to  Trustee  or  Trustees  to  preserve  the 
contingent  Remainder.  That  is  to  say  from  the  deceace  of  said  John  Fairclough  to  the  vse  of 
the  first  son  of  said  John  [etc.].  And  for  default  of  such  to  the  vse  of  my  Bror  Mr  John  Fair¬ 
clough  of  Kennitt.  But  in  case  my  nephew  (grandson  of  my  Bror  Nathaniel)  shall  dye  before 
or  after  he  attains  the  age  of  twenty  foure  yeares  vpon  request  and  at  the  proper  cost  of  my 
Bror  Mr  John  Fairclough,  shall  refuse  to  confirme  to  him  my  said  Bror  John  Fairclough  such  lands 
[etc.]  as  was  heretofore  conveyed  to  him  by  my  Bror  Mr  Richard  Fairclough  deceased,  in  such 
manner  as  by  the  Councell  in  the  law  of  my  said  Bror  John  Fairclough  or  liis  heires,  then  said 


FAIRCLOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


65 


George  Jones  and  Christopher  Burrell  or  the  heires  of  the  survivor  shall  assure  said  premisses  now 
purchased,  or  hereafter  to  be  purchased,  to  the  vse  of  aforesaid  nephew  John  Fairclough,  Citizen 
and  Draper  of  London.  I  bequeath  vnto  my  nephew  John  Fairclough,  Citizen  and  Draper  of 
London,  all  my  houses  and  lands,  now  or  late  in  the  occupation  of  William  Heylocke  in  Ketton 
for  his  life,  and  after  to  the  vse  and  behoofe  of  the  first  son  of  the  body  of  said  John  [etc.]. 
And  for  want  of  such  issue  to  the  vse  of  the  second,  third  [etc.]  and  every  other  son  of  said  John 
[etc.].  And  for  default  of  such  issue  I  give  the  premisses  vnto  my  nephew  Jones  Fairclough 
to  his  heirs  for  ever.  I  give  vnto  my  neice  Sarah  Fairclough,  daughter  of  my  Bror  John  my 
house  and  land  in  great  Bradly  in  Suffolke  and  also  houses  in  Ivirtling  ats  Catlidge  in  co.  Cam¬ 
bridge  for  her  life,  in  the  tenure  of  John  Wiand,  then  to  her  children  and  for  want  of  such  issue 
to  my  nephew  Charles  Fairclough  her  Bror  and  his  heires  for  ever.  Vnto  Elizabeth  Fairclough 
grand-daughter  of  my  Bror  Nathaniel  deced  my  house  and  landes  now  or  late  in  the  occupation 
of  William  Morfue  in  Kirtling  for  life  and  after  his  deceace  to  the  children  of  said  Elizabeth,  and 
failing  such  issue  I  give  the  same  vnto  Richard  Fairclough  my  nephew,  eldest  son  of  my  Bror 
John  Fairclough  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever.  As  to  my  personall  Estate  I  doe  bequeath  the  same 
as  followeth.  Vnto  my  nephew  Mr  Christopher  Shreive  £200  which  he  oweth  me.  Vnto  my  nephew 
Samuel  Shreive  a  full  Release  of  all  debts  and  all  arrears  of  rent.  Vnto  my  nephew  John  Fair¬ 
clough,  of  London,  draper,  all  like  arrears  of  rent,  also  one  third  part  of  all  moneys  owing  vnto 
me  by  his  aunt  Mrs  Hannah  Mainford.  I  give  one  other  third  part  vnto  Samuel  Fairclough  my 
nephew,  and  grandson  of  my  Bror  Nathaniel  deceased,  and  one  other  third  vnto  Elizabeth  Fair¬ 
clough,  granddaughter  of  my  Bror  Nathanel  deceased.  My  executors  to  recover  said  moneys 
and  divide  them  accordingly.  I  give  the  vse  of  my  Library  of  bookes  as  they  are  Catalogued 
with  my  owne  hand,  vnto  my  nephew  Richard  Fairclough  of  Caius  Colledge,  he  to  give  bond  to 
restore  the  said  Library  vnto  my  nephew  Samuel  Fairclough,  grandson  of  my  Bror  Nathaniel, 
when  he  the  said  Samuel  shall  attaine  vnto  the  age  of  twenty  four  yeares,  or  shall  allow  said  Samuel 
in  liew  thereof  thirty  pounds,  at  the  said  Samuel’s  age  of  twenty  foure  yeares,  if  he  shall  live 
soe  long.  My  lease  which  I  and  Mr  William  Greene  did  hold  of  the  Major  and  Burgesses  of  Cam¬ 
bridge  I  give  vnto  the  Master  and  Fellows  of  Gonvill  and  Caius  Colledge  in  Cambridge,  the  moiety 
of  the  Rent  thereof  to  buy  such  Bookes  as  they  shall  thinke  fitt,  with  the  Donor’s  name  lettered 
on  the  Backs  thereof  ;  the  other  Moiety  to  be  putt  into  the  Treasury  of  the  said  Colledge  towards 
the  constant  renewal  of  said  lease  and  Maintenance  of  a  Scholler.  I  give  vnto  my  neice  Sarah 
Fairclough  my  wrought  Bed,  with  wrought  Chaires  and  stooles,  and  hangings  of  my  Chamber 
now  being  at  my  cosin  Blackerlyes1  [sic]  house  in  London.  Vnto  my  nephew  Christopher  Shreive 
one  of  my  silver  tumblers,  and  to  my  nephew  Samuel  Shreive  another  of  my  silver  tumblers.  Vnto 
my  little  neice  Elizabeth  Fairclough  my  silver  Tankerd,  and  to  my  neice  Sarah  Fairclough  my  two 
best  silver  porringers.  The  rest  of  my  plate  and  of  my  goods  and  moneys  to  be  divided  into 
three  parts.  One  part  I  give  vnto  my  Bror  John  Fairclough ;  another  third  part  to  my  sister 
Jane  Jones,  to  be  disposed  by  her  vnto  the  children  or  grandchildren  of  my  Bror  Nathaniel  deceased, 
the  other  third  part  of  my  personall  estate  I  give  vnto  my  sister  Martha  Shute,  widdow,  to  be 
disposed  of  between  the  children  and  grandchildren  of  my  sister  Shreive.  I  do  will  one  moyety 
thereof  vnto  my  nephew  Christopher  Shreive,  and  the  other  moyety  to  the  children  of  my  nephew 
Samuel  Shreive  of  Stowmarkett.  I  appoint  my  Bror  John  Fairclough  and  my  sister  jane  Jones 
and  my  sister  Martha  Shute  my  Executor  and  Executrices,  to  lay  a  gravestone  on  mee  and  to 
erect  a  little  inscription  on  the  north  wall  of  the  Chancell  of  Heningham,  in  memory  of  my  selfe 
and  wife,  and  to  lay  a  gravestone  on  my  ffather,  and  then  to  make  division  of  my  personal 


1  Blackerbv’s. 


K 


66 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


estate  betweene  them,  and  to  execute  all  things  according  to  this  will,  written  with  my  owne 
hand.  Sealed  this  10th  of  Decr  1689,  in  the  presence  of  vs,  Ann  Ralph,  Math  :  Cradock,  William 
Goodrick. 

Codicil. — To  Mr  Lauranc,  Minister,  of  London,  £10.  To  Mr  Mayo  £10.  To  Mr  Stanclif 
£10.  To  Mr  Vincent  £10.  £5  a  yeare  to  the  Minister  at  the  meeting  house  in  Pembrock  hall, 

Layes,  for  ten  yeares.  My  nephew  Christopher  Shreive  having  received  money  of  Mrs  Mamford, 
&  neglected  to  pay  the  interest  for  the  £200,  &c.,  I  declare  that  any  two  of  my  Exors  shall  sue 
him  for  £40  that  he  oweth  me,  with  which  Exors  shall  renew  the  Lease  from  the  Mayor  &  settle 
the  same  upon  Gonvile  &  Caius  College  according  to  my  will.  Witnessed  by  John  Grenleaf,  &c. 

Probatum  septimo  die  Septembris  1692,  juramentis  Johannis  Fairclough,  Janae  Jones  et 
Martha  Shute  Executor  u. 

P.C.C.  145  Fane. 


^djeningham. 

The  name  of  Samuel  Fairclough  does  not  appear  amongst  the  burial  entries  for  1677,  but 
there  is  a  quaint  epitaph  without  date  to  his  memory  upon  a  marble  tablet  on  the  north  wall 
of  the  chancel,  within  the  altar  rails.  The  following  is  a  copy  from  the  Parish  Terrier,  1794  : 
“  Also  there  is  due  to  ye  Rector  yearly  ye  sum  of  Twenty  Shillings  paid  by  ye  Rector  of  Ketton, 
alias  Keddington,  out  of  an  house  at  Ketton,  given  by  Mr  Samuel  Fairclough,  ye  condition  is, 
that  his  bones  be  not  disturbed  which  are  buried  in  the  Chancel  of  Haveningham.”  Note. — 
The  last  payment  of  this  annuity  that  can  be  found  is  dated  1867,  from  which  it  would  almost 
seem  that  in  the  restoration  of  the  chancel  somehow  “  the  bones  ”  of  Samuel  Fairclough  were 
disturbed,  and  therefore  the  annuity  lapsed.  There  is  a  small  stone  on  the  west  wall  of  the  tower 
bearing  the  inscription  of  George  Jones,  jun.,  1692. 


(Epitaph  in  (Ehancd  of  gtjdttningham  (Elturdt,  (Suffolk. 

Reader  Look  hence  under  yon  Marble  Reft 
the  Belt  of  Preachers  and  his  wife  the  Beft 
of  Woemen  there  do  their  Deare  Allies  lye 
Their  Dearer  Souls  are  Mounted  ’bove  the  Sky 
on  Thrones  of  Glory  but  they’l,  ere  long,  Returne 
an  reaffume  thole  Afhes  From  that  urne. 


FAIRCLOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


67 


Do  Prophets  live  foreuer  Can  the  Belt 
of  Heauens  Ambafsadors  from  Deaths  Arreft 
Pretend  a  Franchife  to  behold  this  Shrine 
See  here  a  Prophet  and  Compleat  Diuine 
on  whom  the  tliankles  world  too  late  will  know 
And  by  his  Abfence  find  him  to  be  fo 
When  Prophets  dy  the  worft  of  ills  we  fear 
When  Enuoys  are  recall’d  Sume  war  is  near 
Our  only  refuge  is  He  ftill  doth  liue  • 

Who  did  both  Prophets  and  Apoftles  giue. 
ye  Reuerend  Samuel  Faireclough  &  Frances  his  Wife. 


fi(RiU  of  Jnhn  Jfairdouglt,  1695. 

John  Faireclough, .  of  Kennet,  co.  Cambridge,  dark.  Unto  my  sonn  Nathaniell  Faireclough 
my  messuage  in  Burwell,  with  the  Tann  office,  yards,  gardens  &  orchards,  and  the  close  called 
the  Stank  ;  also  household  stuff.  Linnen  to  daur  Sarah  Fairclough.  Unto  my  sonn  Charles  Fair- 
clough  six  acres  arable  in  Burwell,  and  two  fenn  lotts  or  Dolvers  in  Burwell ;  also  tenn  acres 
arable  in  Burwell,  holden  of  the  Manor  of  Rumseys  in  Burwell  ;  also  £200  at  his  age  of  21  years  ; 
he  to  be  apprentice  to  some  good  trade.  To  Sarah  my  daur  the  close  in  Burwell  called  the  Tower 
Orchard  (about  ten  acres)  and  £100  at  her  marriage  or  age  of  21  years.  To  my  sonn  Jones 
Faireclough  £100.  £10  to  the  towne  of  Kennett,  to  be  added  to  the  £30  bequeathed  by  Mr  Row¬ 

land  Griffith.  By  Indre  18  March  last,  Sr  Rob4  Davers,  Bar4,  for  £120  did  grant  my  sister  Mrs 
Martha  Shute  w°  and  my  sonn  Nathaniel  the  next  advowson  of  the  Rectory  of  Lidgate  co.  Sufi. 
&  Camb  :  It  hath  not  since  been  void.  If  Nathaniel  die  my  son  Richard  to  have  it.  All  my 
books  to  my  sonn  Samuel  Fairclough.  Cousins  John  Bretton  of  Elden,  clerke,  &  Samuel  Nether- 
cote  of  Soham  to  be  Exors.  To  my  sonn  Richard  messuages  at  Herringswell,  co.  Suffolk,  & 
messuages  &c.  in  Keddington  ats  Ketton,  &  copy  closes  in  Burwell  &  Kennett.  Probatum  6°  Feb. 
1695.  Juramentis  Joins  Bretton  et  Samuell  Nethercoate,  Exorum. 

The  witnesses  were  Mid.  Dowman  :  Wiftm  Chenery  :  Sam.  Burrough. 

P.C.C.  9  Bond. 


2®ill  of  dcovge  Jones,  1702. 

Will  of  George  Jones,  of  Heveningham,  co.  Suffolk,  clerke.  3d  March  1702.  Unto  Jane 
my  wife  my  messuages  and  lands  in  Heveningham,  purchased  of  Abraham  Newgate,  gent.  My 
lands  in  Thornham  Magna,  co.  Suffolk.  Samuel  Fairclough,  my  late  brother  in  law,  in  his  will 
dated  10th  Dec.  1689,  gave  his  houses  in  Great  Wratten  to  me  and  to  his  cousin  Christopher 

K2 


68 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Burrell  of  Tivetshall,  co.  Norfolk,  clerk.  To  Thomas  Shute  of  Whalley,  co.  Somerset,  gent.,  my 
nephew,  and  Benjamin  Beach  of  Monkston  Deverel,  co.  Wilts,  gent.,  said  houses  and  lands  in  G‘ 
Wratten  in  trust,  out  of  the  rents  to  pay  George  Jones  of  Huntingfield,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.,  my 
nephew,  until  he  marry  a  prudent  woman,  and  then  to  settle  them  upon  them  and  heirs  males. 
If  he  die  single,  they  to  go  to  my  right  heires.  To  Jane  my  wife  my  charriot  and  horses,  &c. 
She  to  be  Executrix,  and  Thomas  Neale  of  Bramfield,  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.,  Super  advisor.  Probate 
3  Nov.  1704,  to  Jane  Jones  the  Relict. 

P.C.C.  235  Ash. 


Mill  of  Christopher  jtarrtll,  1701. 

Christopher  Burrell,  of  Tivetshall  Sl  Mary,  co.  Norfolk,  clerk,  gave  all  he  had  to  Mary 
his  wife,  and  made  her  sole  executrix.  27th  Dec.  1701.  Probate  16th  January  1701,  to  Mary  the 
Relict. 

Norwich  Consistory  Wills,  1699-1702,  fo.  218. 


Mill  of  Jane  Jones,  1704. 

Jane  Jones,  of  Heveningham,  co.  Suffolk,  widow,  the  11th  day  of  November  in  the  3d  year 
of  Q.  Anne,  1704.  My  lands  in  Thornham  Magna,  co.  Suff :  to  be  sold.  Money  due  from  my 
late  husband,  Mr  George  Jones,  unto  Samuel  Faireclough  of  Tivetshall,  co.  Norff  :  gent.,  my  kinsman, 
by  vertue  of  a  trust  vested  in  my  husband  by  Samuel  Faireclough,  my  late  brother.  Money  late 
due  to  my  sister,  Mrs  Martha  Shute.  The  overplus  I  give  to  Hester  Shute,  sister  of  the  said  George 
Jones  my  husband.  My  lands  in  Heveningham  I  give  to  Nathaniel  Faireclough  of  Stowmarkett, 
tanner,  my  nephew  (whom  I  make  one  of  my  executors)  for  life,  and  after  his  decease  to  Thomas 
Shute  of  Kilmorden,  co.  Somerset,  gent.,  and  George  Jones  my  husbands  nephew  :  and  after,  said 
lands  in  Heveningham  to  Thomas  Neale,  of  Bramfield,  co.  Suffolk,  Esqre,  and  Francis  Robinson, 
of  Cookely,  co.  Suffolk,  yeoman,  for  life  of  said  George  Jones  my  nephew ;  and  then,  after  his 
death,  to  his  sons,  and  failing  their  issue,  to  his  daughter,  and  if  they  die  without  issue,  to  said 
Hester  Shute  my  sister  in  law  for  life  ;  then  to  Margaret  Beach,  Hester  Jessar,  &  Martha  Shute. 
daughters  of  the  said  Hester  Shute  &  their  heirs  for  ever.  Estate  of  Mr  Joshua  Jones,  clerk, 
late  father  of  said  George  Jones  my  nephew,  or  of  Mrs  Cobb  his  grandmother.  To  Martha  Shute 
my  sister  my  charriott  with  my  horses.  [“  Hester  Shute  my  sister  in  law,”  “  Martha  Shute  my 
sister,”  in  a  memorandum.]  Money  George  Jones  owed  me  when  he  went  away  into  the  West  of 
England  1703.  Probate  15  June  1705  to  Nathaniel  Faireclough. 


P.C.C.  143  Gee. 


FAIRCLOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


69 


Mill  of  ifki'tha  finite,  1705. 

Will  of  Martha  Shute,  late  of  Stowmarkett  and  now  of  Heveningham,  co.  Suffolk,  widow. 
11th  May,  4th  Anne,  1705.  Unto  my  Kinsman  Jones  Faireclough,  of  London,  packer,  a  son  of 
John  Faireclough,  late  of  Kennett,  co.  Cambridge,  clerk,  my  late  deceased  brother,  £40.  To  Thomas 
Sherive,  son  of  my  Kinsman  Samuel  Sherive,  late  of  Stowmarkett,  tanner,  £10  at  his  age  of  14 
years.  Martha  Sherive  my  kinswoman.  To  my  nephew,  Nathaniel  Faireclough,  of  Stowmarkett, 
tanner,  the  residue  of  my  estate.  He  to  be  sole  executor. 

A  codicil,  dated  3  Septr  1705,  refers  to  the  will  of  Jane  Jones,  “  my  late  sister.” 

Probate  19  June  1706  to  Nathaniel  Faireclough. 


®iU  of  (Sir  ^anmel  glarnarhkton,  1704. 

In  his  will,  Sir  Samuel  Barnardiston,  of  Brightwell  Hall,  co.  Suffolk,  Bart.,  15  Aug.  1704, 
refers  to  lands  in  Barnardiston,  &c.,  late  bought  of  Richard  Fairclough,  of  Bristow,  clerk,  and 
Abigail  his  wife. 

P.C.C.  254  Poley. 


SHill  of  (Sarah  Jfairduugh,  1717. 

Sarah,  wife  of  Samuel  Fairclough,  of  Tivetshall,  gentn,  with  my  said  husband’s  consent, 
do  hereby  make  my  last  will,  &c.,  &c.  My  good  friends  my  brother-in-law  Mr  Nathaniel  Burrell 
of  Letheringsett,  Norf.,  &  Mr  Charles  Gibbs  of  Tivetshall,  to  sell  within  two  years  of  my  husband’s 
death,  all  my  messuages  &c.  in  the  Tivetshalls  &  Pulham,  Norfk.,  &  the  money  so  raised  to  be 
divided  among  my  daughters,  any  of  them  who  are  under  age,  to  be  held  in  trust  for  them  & 
if  Nath1  Burrell  &  Chas  Gibbs  both  die  before  the  sale  then  my  son  John  to  be  trustee  &  sell 
same  if  living  &  of  age  at  my  husband’s  death  &  if  neither  he  nor  Burrill  or  Gibbs  be  then  living, 
my  eldest  daughter  is  to  act :  If  any  daughter  marry,  trustees  have  power  to  raise  one  seventh 
for  her.  Samuel  Rye,  of  Thelnetham,  Suff  :  clerk  :  exor.  Signed  by  both.  Frances  Chamberlain, 
Ursula  x  Dix,  Daniel  Sayer,  witnesses.  Dated  21st  November  1717.  Proved  28th  November  1717 
by  the  exor. 

Norwich  Consistory  Court :  1717  fo.  290. 


Kill  of  Elizabeth  Jfairdough,  1734. 

Elizabeth  Fairclough,  wife  of  Samuel  Fairclough,  of  Tivetshall  Sl  Margaret,  Norfk.,  gent., 
by  power  of  marriage  settlement  do  make  this  my  last  will,  &c.  To  so  many  of  my  sister’s 
children  (except  Richd  Baker)  as  shall  be  living  at  the  end  of  a  year  after  the  decease  of  my  husband 
£200  equally  among  them.  To  the  five  daughters  of  Samuel  Fairclough  my  husband  £10  each. 
To  John  Fairclough,  son  of  the  said  Samuel  Fairclough,  my  silver  Tankard  &  gold  ring  with  seal 


70 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


upon  it.  To  Martha,  wife  of  John  Clarke  with  whom  I  now  dwell,  best  suit  of  clothes,  best  black 
silk  petticoat  &  my  mourning  ring.  The  rest  of  my  clothes  &  linen  (except  my  bed  quilt  which 
I  give  to  the  said  Martha  Clarke)  I  give  among  the  said  five  daurs  of  Samuel  Fairclough, 
my  husband.  John  Clarke  of  Tivetshall  Sl  Margaret,  sole  cxor.  &  residuary  legatee.  Signed 
by  Elizth  &  Sam1  Fairclough.  William  Rye,  Martha  x  Gennery,  Benjn  Bayes,  witnesses.  Dated 
27  Oct.  1734.  Proved  28  Feb.  1734-5. 

Consistory  Court  of  Norwich.  Register  1734,  fo.  114. 


Mill  of  Nathaniel  JFairdoxtgh,  1738. 

Nathaniel  Fairclough  of  Stowmarkett,  co.  Suff :  gentn.  Whereas  on  the  marriage  of  Nathaniel 
Fairclough,  my  only  son,  with  Mary  his  now  wife,  I  settled  the  Manor  of  Fosters  in  Co  :  Camb 
&  also  lands  in  Burwell  Reach  &  Exning  co  :  Suff  :  &  Cambs  to  certain  uses,  I  hereby  confirm  the 
same.  (Uses  not  set  out.)  To  Elizabeth,  my  loving  wife,  lands  &  hereditaments  in  Mendlesham, 
Cotton  &  Wickham  Skeith,  co :  Suff.  for  her  life  &  then  to  Garnham  Ray  of  Bradfield,  clerk, 
my  son-in-law  for  lives  &  longer  liver  &  on  decease  of  sd  Garnham  Ray  &  Sarah  his  wife,  to  their 
right  heirs  &  in  default  of  such  to  Nathaniel  Fairclough  my  son  &  his  heirs  for  ever.  Whereas 
said  manor  of  Fosters  is  charged  with  an  annuity  of  £10  to  my  wife  Elizabeth  for  her  life,  on  my 
death,  she  is  to  give  a  release  of  the  same.  To  my  said  wife  the  house,  land,  garden  &c.  in  my 
own  occupation,  for  her  life,  remainder  to  my  son  Nathaniel  Fairclough.  To  Sarah  Ray  my  daur 
my  messuages  lands  &c.  in  Bury  Sl  Edmunds  to  hold  to  her  for  ever.  To  Nathaniel  Fairclough 
my  son,  messuages,  farms '&c.  in  Old  Newton,  Suff.,  &  closes  of  land  in  Stowupland  (Great  Greens 
and  Little  Greens)  &  all  my  other  lands  in  Stowmarket  &  Stowupland,  on  condition  that  he  carries 
out  this  will.  To  my  wife  Elizabeth,  the  use  of  plate,  linen  &  furniture,  such  as  she  may  need, 
for  her  fife  and  then  to  my  son  Nathaniel.  To  my  wife  £100  also.  Said  wife  &  son  Nathaniel 
Fairclough  exors.  George  Harrington,  Martha  Harrington,  Jn°  Grimston,  witnesses.  Dated  23  May 
1738.  Proved  8  Feb.  1753  by  the  son,  the  widow  having  renounced. 

Consistory  Court  of  Norwich.  Register  1753,  f.  59. 


inscription,  in  |Cong  §udon  (Elumit,  gorset. 

On  a  small  brass  plate,  5J  inches  square,  fixed  to  a  stone  now  on  the  south  wall  of  Long 
Burton  church,  Dorset,  is  the  following  inscription  : — 

“  Who  conquered  had  his  Foes,  Himselfe,  his  God, 

Mighty  in  prayer,  Doctrine  and  the  Word. 

Holy  in  Life,  still  bearing  of  the  Rod, 

His  dayes  and  joyes  resembling  Jonah’s  Gourd. 

A  living  sermon,  Faithful  to  that  trust, 

Ashamed  of  nought  but  Flesh,  heere  hid  his  dust. 

Nathaniel  Faireclough,  Mag :  Art  :  Familia 
natus  notiori,  et  Rector  Ecclesias  Stilbrigiensis 
in  hoc  Comitatu,  obijt  die  undecimo  octobris 
An  :  Dom  :  1656.” 


FAIRCLOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


71 


En  the  |Dcmg  gurton  Register. 

14  Aug.  1648.  M1  Nathaniell  ffaireclofe,  minister,  and  Elizabeth  Maniford,  married. 
21  Oct.  1616.  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Henry  Maniford,  baptized. 

23  Oct.  1656.  Mr  Nathaniel  Faireclough,  Minister  of  Stilbridge,  buried. 


The  Admon.  of  Nathaniel  F.  was  granted  to  his  widow,  27  Nov.  1656,  and  a  second  Adm. 
to  his  children’s  uncles,  2  Oct.  1666,  viz.,  to  Richard  Fairclough,  Richard  Shute  and  Samuel 
Fairclough. 


|ReO.  Joint  Jfairdrmgh,  Clerk,  1750. 

Administration  of  the  estate  of  the  Rev.  John  Fairclough,  Rector  of  Colton,  in  Norfolk, 
was  granted  on  3  Oct.  1730  by  the  Episcopal  Consistorial  Court  of  Norwich  to  Charles  Fairclough, 
of  North  Walsham,  Norfolk,  surgeon,  on  the  renunciation  of  the  Rev.  Richard  Fairclough  his 
father.  The  renunciation  deed  is  sealed  with  an  armorial  seal  of  a  lion  rampant  between  three 
fleur-de-lys,  and  the  crest  is  a  demi-lion  rampant. 

Cur.  Ep.  Nor.  Ad  :  Bonds  1730,  No.  64. 


Charles  jfairdough,  1757. 

Administration  of  the  estate  of  Charles  Fairclough,  late  of  North  Walsham,  co.  Norfolk 
surgeon,  deceased  intestate,  was  granted  on  7  Feb.  1137  by  the  Norfolk  Archidiaconal  Court  to 
Lydia  Fairclough  of  North  Walsham,  his  widow  and  relict. 

Norf :  Arch  :  Bonds,  1737,  No.  64. 


|&eb.  (Samuel  jFatrdouglt,  1740. 

Administration  of  the  estate  of  Samuel  Fairclough,  Rector  of  Lydgate,  deceased  intestate, 
was  granted  on  the  24  March  1740  by  the  Episcopal  Consistorial  Court  of  Norwich  to  Lydia 
Fairclough  the  widow  and  relict  of  the  deceased. 

Cur.  Ep :  Nor :  Bonds,  1740,  No.  150. 


72 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  glichari)  Jfairdcmglt,  1750. 

Richard  Fairclough,  Clerk,  Rector  of  Kennet,  co  :  Camb  :  My  estate  at  Herringswell  which 
remains  unsold  I  bequeath  to  my  son  Richard  and  his  heirs  for  ever.  To  my  grandson  Richard 
Fairclough,  son  of  my  said  son  Richard,  all  my  real  estate  in  Keddington  (otherwise  Ketton), 
co  :  Suff :  subject  to  a  payment  of  50s.  a  year  to  my  maid  servant  Susan  Burgis  during  her  life. 
To  the  overseers  of  the  poor  of  Kennet  £3  to  be  applied  to  pay  the  fine  due  on  the  admission 
on  my  death  of  the  Overseers  to  a  copyhold  house  in  Kennet  which  I  sold  to  them.  All  household 
goods,  plate,  books  &  effects  to  be  sold  to  pay  debts  &  funeral  &c.,  &  any  overplus  to  use  of 
grandson  Richard  Fairclough.  John  Kent,  of  Kennet,  exor.  Dated  19  July  1750.  Proved  22  Sept. 
1750  by  the  exor. 

Sudbury  Archdeaconry  Court.  Register  1750,  fo.  309. 


Will  of  ^athaitid  Jjairdcmgh,  1765. 

Nathaniel  Fairclough,  of  Stowmarket,  co.  Suflk  :  gentleman.  To  my  son  William  Fairclough, 
lands  &c.  in  Nedging  co  :  Suffolk.  To  my  daur  Elizabeth,  wife  of  Rev.  Thos  Ottley,  clerk,  and  my 
daughter  Hannah  Fairclough  all  my  other  lands  &  property  as  tenants  in  common.  Whereas  by 
a  bond  dated  about  1753  I  bound  myseld  to  pay  £40  a  year  to  my  daur  Elizabeth  for  her  fife — 
she  is  to  give  up  the  said  bond  on  possession  of  the  said  premises.  To  Lydia  Sharpe,  wife  of 
John  Sharpe  of  Old  Newton,  farmer,  £10.  The  Residue  of  my  property  I  leave  to  my  son  William 
&  my  daughter  Hannah  equally  between  them,  &  they  are  to  be  my  exors.  Samuel  Alston,  John 
Van  der  Zee,  John  Dennant,  witnesses.  Dated  9th  March  1761(-62).  Proved  4th  August  1763 
by  the  exors. 

Consistory  Court  of  Norwich.  Register  1763,  fo.  386. 


FAIRCLOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


73 


Jfairrlouflt)  of  &>uffoUt. 


Rev.  Laurence  Fairclough,  was  Vicar  of  Haverhill=f=Mary,  dau.  of  John  Cole,  of  Haverhill  (Thomas  Cole  of  the 


in  1603;  instituted  to  Haverhill,  co.  Sufi.,  1568; 
ob.  1605;  admon.  C.E.N. 


same  was  patron  of  the  living  in  1603)  ;  administered  to 
her  husband’s  estate  29  May  1605  (Cur.  Ep.  Norv.). 


John  Fairclough,  bapt.  9  Feb.  1575 
at  Haverhill;  bur.  21  May  1594 
at  Haverhill. 


- 1 - 

Sarah  Fairclough, 
bapt.  7  Aug.  1588 
at  Haverhill. 


- 1 - 

Susan  Fairclough,  bapt. 
27  Sept.  1590  at  Haver¬ 
hill. 


1  William^ Joan  King,  mar.  19  ...  .  1590  (sic) 
Fair-  at  Haverhill,  ?  bur.  21  May  1594  at 
dough.  Haverhill. 


Lettice  or  Lucy  Fairclough, 
bapt.  6  April  1591  at  Haver¬ 
hill. 


T 


William  Fairclough,  bapt.^fMary,  dau.  of  .  .  .  and  widow  of  William  ffolkes  of  Kirtling  Cam- 
24  May  1592  at  Haverhill.  ■  bridge,  by  whom  she  was  mother  of  Frances,  wife  of  Rev.  Samuel 

Fairclough,  which  Frances  died  6  Aug.  1689.] 


Thomas,  son  of  William  Fairclough,  bapt.  at  Kedington  12  Jan.  1627. 


2.  Mary,  widow= 
of  .  .  .  Brooke. 
She  was  sister 
of  John  Sorell, 
of  Much  Wal¬ 
tham,  Essex. 

Her  Will,  dated 
4  Sept.  1667,  pr. 
15  March  1669 
by  her  brother 
John  Sorell  ; 
bur.  at  Kennett 
18  Feb.  1669. 


-Rev.  Samuel  Fairclough,  youngest  son,  b.  29  April  1594  at  Haver¬ 
hill  ;  bapt.  there  23  May  1594,  Haverhill.  Was  of  Queen’s  Coll., 
Cam.  ;  lecturer  successively  at  Lynn  Regis,  Norf.,  and  Clare,  Sufi. 
Rector  of  Bardnardiston,  Suffolk,  27  June  1623  ;  inst.  to  Kedington, 
Sufi.,  26  Jan.  16§§  on  the  presentation  of  Sir  Nathaniel  Barnardis- 
ton,  where  he  continued  for  nearly  thirty-five  years,  during  which 
time  he  was  offered  and  declined  the  Mastership  of  Trin.  Coll., 
Cam.  Ejected  1662,  and  John  Tillotson,  afterwards  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  appointed  in  his  place.  Lived  with  his  daus.  at  Hev- 
eningham  and  Stowmarket.  Died  at  Stowmarket  14  Dec.  1677, 
aged  84,  and  was  bur.  at  Stowmarket,  near  the  vestry  door  of  the 
church.  Published  the  “Pastor’s  Legacy,”  1663,  and  other  works 
(see  Diet.  Nat.  Biog.,  xviii,  128).  There  is  an  engraved  portrait  of 
him  in  “  The  Troublers  Troubled,”  a  sermon  preached  before 
sundry  of  the  Honorable  House  of  Commons,  4  April  1641  (London, 
printed  by  R.  Cotes  for  Henry  Overton,  etc.  .  .  .).  This  is  by  Van 
Hove.  In  Thos.  Martin’s  “  Church  Notes  ( Cullurn  Evidences)  under 
Kennett,”  5  Jan.  17§§,  we  find,  “  At  the  Parsonage  in  the  Parlor  is  a 
fine  old  picture  t)  euuav  tou  (Rot/  avSpos  xaPaTVP  motto  1  Vix  ea  nostra 
voco.’  Arms,  Or  between  3  de  lys’s  Sa.  a  Lyon  ram*  of  the2nd  Gu. 
Crest,  Or  a  torce  Sa.  &  Or  a  Lyon  issuant  Sa.  langued  Gu.  This 
is  the  picture  of  Sam.  Fairclough,  Rector  of  Ketton,  in  Suffolk,”  etc. 


=  1.  Susan,  eldest  dau.  of  Richard  Blackerby  (the 
celebrated  Puritan,  who  was  born  at  Worlington, 
Suff.,  1574,  second  son  of  Thomas  Blackerby; 
ed.  at  Bury  St.  Eds.  and  Trin.  Coll.,  Cam. ; 
Chaplain  to  Sir  Thomas  Jermyn,  of  Rushbrooke, 
and  afterwards  to  Sir  Edmund  Lewkenor,  of  Den¬ 
ham,  Suffolk  ;  Congregational  Minister  at  Great 
Thurlow,  where  he  died  1648,  in  his  74th  year, 
see  Diet.  Nat.  Biog.,  v,  126),  by  Sarah,  eldest  dau. 
of  Rev.  Robert  Oldmayne  alias  Pricke,  of  Denham 
(erroneously  called  Timothy  in  Diet.  Nat.  Biog.). 
She  was  bapt.  1601  at  Denham.  Davy  calls  her 
father  of  “  Ashen,  Essex”  (Add.  MSS.  19,  129). 
Another  daughter  married  Christopher  Burrell, 
Rector  of  Great  Wratting,  Suffolk.  He  was 
devised  lands  by  Samuel  Fairclough  in  1689, 
and  in  his  Will  as  clerk,  of  Tivetshall  St.  Mar¬ 
garet,  Norfolk,  left  all  he  possessed  to  his  wife 
Mary,  sole  executrix,  27  Dec.  1701  ;  pr.  16  Jan. 
same  year  by  executrix.  First  wife.  She  was 
bur.  at  Keddington  14  July  1638. 


L 


Rev.  Richard  Fairclough,  eldest= 
son,  b.  1621.  M.A.,  Emmanuel 

Coll.,  Cam. ;  Rector  of  Mells,  near 
Frome,  Somerset;  ejected  1662 
for  Nonconformity;  Pastor  at 
Newnham  Street,  London,  and  at 
Bristol.  Died  in  London,  4  July 
1682,  in  his  61st  year;  bur.  in 
Bunhill  Fields.  Will,  9  Apr.  1681, 
pr.  2  Nov.  1682  by  brother  Samuel 
(P.C.C.  127,  Cottle).  He  left 
rings  to  Madam  Elizabeth  Bar- 
nardiston  and  her  daughter,  Mrs. 
Anne.  A  long  M.I.  to  his  memory 
was  erected  in  Bunhill  Fields  by 
his  friend  Thomas  Persival  of  the 
Mid.  Temp.,  gent.,  A.D.  1682.  S.P. 


-Abigail,  dau.  of 
....  Sir  Samuel 
Barnardiston,  of 
Brightwell  Hall, 
Suffolk, in  hisWill, 
15  Aug.  1704,  al¬ 
ludes  to  lands  ly¬ 
ing  in  Barnardis¬ 
ton,  etc.,  Suffolk, 
purchased  bv  him 
of  the  late  Rev. 
Richard  Fair¬ 
clough,  of  “  Bris¬ 
tow  ”  (Bristol), 
and  Abigail,  his 
wife. 


Rev.  Samuel  Fairclough,  second  son,: 
b.  1625  (?).  He  was  first  at  Em.  Coll.; 
then  Senior  Fellow  of  Caius  Coll., 
Cam.,  1650-1656,  when  he  was  tutor 
to  his  brother  John  ;  Rector  of  Hough¬ 
ton  Conquest,  Beds.,  till  1662,  when 
he  was  ejected  for  Nonconformity ; 
Congregational  Teacher  at  Chippen¬ 
ham,  Cam.,  1672.  Died  31  Dec.  1691, 
aged  66  ;  bur.  at  Heve.ningham,  Suff. 
M.I.  Will,  10  Dec.  1689,  pr.  7  Sept. 
1692  by  his  brother  John  and  sisters 
Jones  and  Shute.  He  left  his  library 
to  his  nephew,  the  Rev.  Richard 
Fairclough,  and  then  to  “  Samuel,  son 
of  his  brother  Nathaniel  Fairclough.” 
S.P.S. 


=Frances,  dau.  and  heir  of  William 
ffolkes,  of  Kirtling,  Cam.,  by  Mary 
(remanded  to  William  Fairclough  at 
Westley  Waterless,  Cam.,  10  May  1621). 
William  ffolkes  and  his  elder  brother, 
Simon  ffolkes  of  Cowling,  Exning, 
Burwell,  and  Cheveley,  were  the  great 
grandsons  of  Martin  ffolkes,  of  West- 
ley  (Will,  7  Oct.  1571,  pr.  8  July  1572), 
great-great-great-grandfather  of  Sir 
Martin  ffolkes,  P.R.S.  Mar.  at  Ked¬ 
dington  25  Oct.  1655  ;  d.  6  Aug.  1689, 
and  bur.  at  Heveningham.  She  bore 
“Vert,  a  fleur  de  lys  Arg.”  “At  her 
funerall  8  escutcheons  on  silk  and  10 
on  Buckram”  [Add.  MSS.  Brit.  Mus., 
12,223]. 


John  Fairclough,  bapt.  and  bur.  at  Kedington  5  April  1672. 


T 


Anne  Fairclough,  bapt.  and  bur.  at  Kedington  1  Oct.  1667. 
_ ) 


Probably  children  of  Samuel  and  Frances  who  died  in  their  infancy. 


A 

Vide  p.  74. 


1  All  biographies  of  Samuel  Fairclough  (1594 — 1677)  say  he  had  three  elder  brothers  “in  the  army.” 

This  was  probably  one  of  them. 


L 


74 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Vide  p.  73. 

A 


Jane  Fairclough,  execu¬ 
trix  of  her  husband’s  will 
3  Nov.  1704.  Will,  “of 
Heveningham,  widow,” 
11  Nov.  1704,  pr.  by  her 
nephew  Nathaniel  Fair¬ 
clough,  of  Stowmarket, 
15  J une  1705  :  bur.  24Apr. 
1705  at  Heveningham. 


:Rev.  George  Jones, 
Rector  of  Heven- 
ingham,  Suffolk. 
Will, 3  March  1702, 
pr.  3  Nov.  1704 
by  widow  Jane, 
executrix.  M.I.  at 
Heveningham. 


Martha  Fairclough,  bapt.  13  April- 
1637  at  Kedington.  Together  with 
her  nephew,  Nathl.,  son  of  the  Rev. 
John  Fairclough,  of  Kennett,  had  the 
advowson  of  Lidgate,  Suff.,and  Cain., 
18  March  1694.  Will  as  “late  of 
Stowmarket  and  now  of  Hevening¬ 
ham,  widow,”  11  May  1705,  cod.  3 
Sept.  1705,  pr.  19  June  1706. 


-Rev.  Richard  Shute.  Entered  St.  John’s  Coll., 
Oxford,  27  Feb.  165°  ;  B.A.  9  Feb.  166f  ;  intruding 
minister  of  Stalbridge,  Dorset ;  ejected  1662 ; 
Rector  of  SS.  Peter  and  Mary,  Stowmarket,  1675, 
to  which  he  was  presented  by  Thos.  Blackerby. 
Died  3  Feb.  168f  at  Stowmarket.  M.I.  He  left 
£100  for  the  purchase  of  land  for  the  benefit  of 
the  Stowmarket  poor.  (Per  chevron  Sa.  and  Or, 
in  chief  2  eagles  displayed,  [SAitte]  impg.  Or  a  lion 
rampt.  bet.  3  fleurs  de  lys  Sa.) 


I - 

Rev.  Nathaniel  Fairclough,  M.  A., ^Elizabeth  Maniford,  dau. 
d.  1656;  admon.  to  widow.  of  Hy.  Maniford. 


~1 

A  daughter.  =f.  .  .  Shrive  or  Sherive. 


L 

r 

Rev.  Samuels 

1  1  #  1 

=?  Bridget  Eliza-  Rev.  Nathaniel  John  Fairclough,^ 

i  r 

=  ...  Posthu-  Christopher 

Fairclough, 

mous,  Shrive, 

M.A.,  Christ’s 

Fair-  1633;  Cathn.,  of  London  1655; 

1657.  mentioned 

1649.  d.  1676. 

dough,  M.A.:  deprived  mentioned  in  Will 

in  Will  of 

Rector  of 

1651.  of  Cornard,  10  Dec.  1689. 

Richard 

Hawkchurch, 

Suff. 

Fairclough, 

Dorset,  1673- 

1681,  then 

76. 

r 

unmarried. 

Elizabeth  Fairclough,  mentioned  10  Dec.  1689. 

i 

2. Elizabeth,  dau.  of  . . .  ,=Samuel  Fairclough,1 
made  Will  by  power  of  not  24  in  1689 ;  ?  d. 
marriage  settlement  27  at  Tivetshall,  bur. 
Oct.  1734,  pr.  28  Feb.  at  Thursford.Norf., 
173|.  1737. 


=j=l.  Sarah,  dau.  of  .  .  .  Kettle,  of 
Tivetshall,  Norf.;  made  Will  by 
consent  of  her  husband  21  Nov. 
1717,  pr.  20  Nov.  following; 
mentions  brother-in-law,  Na¬ 
thaniel  Burrell  of  Letheringsett. 


~r  i 

Elizabeth  Sarah, 
Fair-  bapt. 

dough,  29  May 

alive  1689.  1665 


- 1 - 

Samuel  Shrive,  =f= ... 
mentioned  in 
Will  of  Richard 
Fairclough 
1681,  and  in 
that  of  Samuel 
Fairclough  1689 
when  he  was 
“  of  Stowmark¬ 
et,  Tanner.”  In 
Martha  Fair- 
clough’s  Will, 

1705,  he  is  men¬ 
tioned  as  “ late 
of  Stowmarket.” 


Sarah 

Shrive 

and 

Frances 
Shrive, 
both  men¬ 
tioned  in 
Will  of 
Richard 
Fair¬ 
clough, 


1681. 


John  Fairclough,  devisee  Several  daus.,  who  were  devisees  1717, 
1717  and  1734.  five  of  whom  were  devisees  1734. 


Thomas  Shrive,  mentioned  as  under  the  age  of  14  in 
his  great  aunt  Martha  Fairclough’s  Will  11  May  1705. 


1.  First  wife’s — Rev.  John  Fairclough,  b.  at  Kedington,  bapt.  there  23  Sept.  1633  ;  educated  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds  and=r=2.  Sarah,  dau.  of 


death  alluded 
to  in  Smith’s 
“  Obituary,” 
1677.  [Pro¬ 
bably  an 
error.] 


Dedham,  Suff. ;  aged  17  when  adm.  to  Caius  Coll.,  Cam.,  5  May  1651;  B.A.  1654-5;  M.A.  1658;  M.D. 
1661 ;  Fellow  of  Caius  Coll.  1655-59,  when  the  fellowship  declared  vacant  owing  to  his  continued 
absence  ;  practised  as  a  physician  in  London;  Rector  of  Kennett,  Suffolk,  1662-169§  ;  bur.  at  Kennett. 
1  Feb.  169§.  Will  pr.  6  Feb.  following,  juramentis  Johis  Bretton  et  Samuelis  Nethercoate,  Exorum 
(both  named  by  him  as  cousins). 


.  ,  bur.  28 

October  1674  at 
Kennett. 


I - 1  — 

Samuel  Fairclough,  John  Fairclough, 
bapt.  30  Aug.  1665  bapt.  5  Aug.  1668 ; 
at  Kennett;  died  bur.  10  Dec.  follow- 
young.  ing',  both  at  Ken¬ 

nett. 


Rev.  Richard  Fairclough,  Rector  of  Kennett  1696-1750;  bapt.  at  Kennett,  =j=Marv,  dau. 


14  Feb.  1669;  ed.  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds;  adm.  sizar  to  Caius  Coll.,  Cam., 
aged  17,  22  Jan.  168f ;  B.A.  1691  ;  M.A.  1694;  Curate  of  Quiddenliam.  Will 
19  July  1750,  pr.  22  Sept,  following  by  executor.  He  was  devised  messu¬ 
ages  at  Herringswell  and  Keddington,  Suffolk,  also  closes  in  Burwell  and 
Kennett.  Died  12  Sept.  1750  ;  bur.  at  Kennett. 


of ...  ,  bur. 
22  October 
1721  at 
Kennett. 


Vide  p.  75. 


1  Is  this  the  Samuel  Fairclough  mar.  at  Heveningham  27  Oot.  1702  to  his  wife  Sarah. 
Tivetshall,  St.  Margaret,  gentleman. 


Was  alive  27  Oct.  1734,  and  of 


FAIRCLOUGH  OF  SUFFOLK,  ETC. 


75 


Vide  p.  74. 

C  R 


Nathaniel  Fair- 
clough,  born  12 
Nov.,  bapt.  9 
Dec.  1703;  d.  11 
Oct.,  bur.  16 
Oct.  1707,  all  at 
Kennett. 


- ! - - - - - 1 - — - 1 - 

John  Fairclough,  b.  17  Aug.,  bapt.  31  Aug.  Charles  Fairclough, —  Lydia  Richard  Fairclough, = 


1699  at  Kennett;  at  Bury  School  in  1713;  b.  5  Dec.,  bapt.  8  Dec.  Hill, 
adm.  Trinity  Coll.,  Camb.,  March  1717,  aged  170y  at  Kennett ;  of 
17;  B.A.  1720;  Rector  of  Colton,  Norf.,  mar.  at  Kennett  4  Ken- 
1728-30;  d.  14  Aug.  1730,  set.  31.  M.I.  at  April  1724;  bur.  at  nett. 
Colton.  Admon.  3  Oct.  1730  to  brother  N.  Walsham,  Norf., 
Charles,  surgeon,  North  Walsham.  13  Jan.  173|q  sur¬ 

geon. 


b.  6  May,  bapt.  14 
May  1702  at,  Ken¬ 
nett;  alive  19  July 
1750,  when  his  fa¬ 
ther  left  him  lands 
in  Herringswell. 


Henry  Fair¬ 
clough,  b.  6 
Oct.,  bapt. 12 
Nov.  1705  at 
Kennett. 


Richard  Fairclough,  devisee  of  his  grandfather,  the  Rev.  Richard  Fairclough,  19  July  1750. 


I - 

Jones  Fairclough,  bapt.  at 
Kennett  20  March  1671 ; 
a  legatee  of  his  aunt 
Martha,  when  he  was  of 
“  London,  Packer.” 


Nathaniel  Fairclough,  bapt.  16  March  1674  at  Kennett.  His  father  left  him=pElizabeth, 
(1695)  “  The  messuage  in  Burwell  with  the  tanner’s  office,  yards,  gardens,  and  dau.  of 
orchards,  the  close  called  the  ‘  Stank  ’  and  all  household  stuffs.”  He  was  a 
legatee  and  executor  of  his  aunt  Jane  Jones  (1704),  when  he  was  “  of  Stow- 
market,  Tanner.”  In  1706  he  was  executor  of  his  aunt  Martha  Shute’s  Will. 

He  made  Will  as  “of  Stowmarket,  gentleman,”  23  May  1738,  pr.  8  Feb.  1753. 


- 1 - ■ 

John  Fair¬ 
clough, 
bapt.  20 
Aug.  1677 
at  Kennett. 


N  athanielFairclough, : 
of  Stowmarket,  only 
son.  Will  9  March 
176|,  pr.  4  Aug.  1763. 


Mary,  Sarah  Fairclough,  = 
da.  of  mar.  at  Stoke  Ash, 

.  .  .  .  Suffolk,  31  July 
1736;  d.  26  July 
1748,  aged  37. 


:Rev.  Garnham  Ray,  bapt.  at  St.  Mary’s,  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  26  March  170J,  the  son 
of  Orbell  Ray,  by  Rebecca,  dau.  of  Isaac  Garnham,  both  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds. 
Trin.  Coll.,  Cam.,  B.A.  1722;  M.A.  1726:  Rector  of  Rushbrooke,  Suff.,  1726-1733, 
and  of  Bradfield  St.  George  1732  till  his  death;  preacher  of  St.  Mary’s,  Bury  St. 
Edmunds,  12  Sept.  1741  to  22  July  1742;  d.  9  Feb.  1771;  bur.  16  Feb.  following 
at  Bradfield  St.  George  ;  Will  21  Aug.  1769,  pr.  16  March  1771. 


William  Fairclough, 
pr.  his  father’s  Will 
1763. 


Elizabeth  Fair- — Rev.  Thomas 
dough.  Otrley. 


- 1 

Hannah  Fairclough, 
pr.  her  father’s  Will 
1763. 


‘4 


For  issue  see  “  Pedigree  of  Ray,  of  Denston,” 
by  G.  Milner  Gibson-Cullum,  F.S.A. 


- ! - 

Abigail,  Charles  Fairclough,  b.  26 
dau.  of  Oct.,  bapt.  29  Oct.  1680; 

.  .  .  .  ,  bur.  17  Aug.  1697,  all  at 
bur.  at  Kennett.  Left  lands  in  Bur- 
Lydgate  well  and  £200  when  he  came 
3  April  of  age  by  his  father,  the 
1756.  Rev.  John  Fairclough,  1695. 

Adm.  of  his  effects  as  “  of 
Kennett,  co.  Cams.,”  to  his 
brother,  the  Rev.  Richard 
Fairclough,  30  July  1705. 


Rev.  Samuel  Fairclough,  bapt.  at  Kennett: 
29  May  1679 ;  ed.  at  Kennett  and  Bury 
St.  Edmunds  ;  entered  Caius  Coll.,  Cam., 
1696,  aged  17 ;  B.A.  (second  Wrangler)  ; 
M.A.  1724;  Rector  of  Lydgate,  Suffolk,  to 
which  he  was  instituted  25  Aug.  1701  on 
presentation  of  Nathaniel  Fairclough, 
gent.,  and  Martha  Shute,  widow,  and  of 
Little  Bradley,  Suffolk,  1724-1740,  to 
which  he  was  instituted  29  Oct.  1724 
on  presentation  of  Francis  Dickins,  Esq. ; 
bur.  20  Jan.  174§  at  Lydgate.  Admon.  24 
March  1740  to  Abigail,  his  relict. 


Sarah  Fairclough,  _bap.  12  May  1681  at= 
Kennett ;  mar.  there  1  Sept.  1698.  Her 
father  left  her  a  close  in  Burwell, 
called  “  The  Tower  orchard,”  10  acres  of 
land,  and  £100  in  1695.  Her  uncle 
Samuel  Fairclough  in  his  Will,  1689,  left 
her  a  house  and  lands  in  Great  Bradley, 
Suffolk;  houses  in  Kirtling,  Cams.,  and 
his  “  wrought  bed,  chairs,  and  stooles 
and  the  hangings  of  my  chamber  at  my 
cousin  Blackerby’s  in  London  ”  as  well 
as  his  “  two  best  silver  porringers.” 


^Robert 
Gidery, 
yeom  an, 
of 

Barrow, 

Suffolk. 


Samuel  Fairclough, 
born  15  Aug.  1704 ; 
bapt.  24  Aug.  1704 ; 
bur.  23  May  1705, 
all  at  Lydgate,  Suf¬ 
folk. 


John  Fairclough, 
bapt.  6  July  1706 
at  Lydgate ;  bur. 
10  July  1709,  also 
at  Lydgate. 


Rev.  Samuel  Fairclough,  bapt.  at  Lydgate  24  July  1707  ;  ed.  at  Bury  St. 
Edmunds  ;  entered  Caius  Coll.,  Cam.,  as  sizar,  aged  18,  in  Feb.  172f  ; 
B.A.  173^;  Rector  of  Little  Bradley,  Suffolk,  to  which  he  was  instituted 
24  Jan.  174-j  after  the  death  of  his  father  on  presentation  of  Francis 
Dickins,  gent.,  and  continued  Rector  till  his  death,  when  his  successor 
was  appointed  15  March  174|q  bur.  at  Little  Bradley,  14  Dec.  1743. 


1 


Elizabeth  Anna  Fair¬ 
clough,  born  2  Nov., 
bapt.  12  Nov.  170L, 
bur.  12  July  1705  all 
at  Lydgate. 


jttann  of  ^pstoitlj. 


Jtrmoriai  gearings. 

On  2nd  March  1662-3,  Sir  Edward  Bysshe,  Knight,  Clarenceux  King  of  Arms,  granted  to 
Edward  Mann,  of  Ipswich,  esquire  (“  late  Comptroler  in  his  Maiesties  Port  of  Ipswich  ”),  and  to 
his  descendants,  the  following  arms  :  “  Sable,  on  a  fess  counter  imbatteled  Agent  three  Ogressex, 
betwene  as  many  Goates  passant  of  the  second.”  Crest :  “  a  Demy  dragon  rampant  Sable  gutty 
Agent.”  These  arms  are  sketched  and  thus  described  in  Harl.  MS.  1470. 

The  above  Edward  Mann  married  well.  His  first  wife  was  Elizabeth  Brooke,  or  Brocke, 
of  Worhngworth,  or  Southolt,  Suffolk,  whose  grand-uncle,  John  Brooke,  had  married  Ann,  daughter 
of  Sir  John  Yere,  fifteenth  Earl  of  Oxford,  and  widow  of  Edmond,  Lord  Sheffield.  Edward  Mann’s 
second  wife  was  Dorothy  Mannock,  of  the  ancient  family  of  Gifford’s  Hall  in  Stoke-by-Nayland, 
descended  from  the  Waldegraves  of  Smallbridge  in  Bures,  and,  through  her  paternal  grandmother, 
from  the  Plantagenet  kings  of  England. 

By  probably  a  third  or  fourth  wife  (?  Elizabeth),  Edward  Mann  had  a  daughter  Mary, 
who,  on  23rd  March  1670-71,  was  married  at  St.  Clement’s  Church,  Ipswich,  to  Daniel  Partridge 
of  Holton  St.  Mary,  “  generosus  ”  (thus  in  marriage  licence  of  15th  March  1670-71).  Their  descendant 
Charles  Partridge,  F.S.A.,  of  Stowmarket,  Political  Officer  in  Nigeria,  writes :  “  Daniel  Partridge 
was  a  yeoman.  Probably  Mary  Mann,  daughter  of  an  ‘  esquire,’  married  him  because  of  his  good 
looks,  or  because  he  was  younger  than  she  :  he  was  born  in  1642,  whereas  she  may  have  been  the 
‘  Katherine,’  dau.  of  Edward  Mann,  bapt.  at  S.  Mary  Quay  Church  in  1634.  Also,  she  was  poor, 
for  her  father,  in  his  will  of  24  Feb.  1670-71,  speaks  of  his  ‘worldly  estate’  as  being  ‘not  now 
great,’  and  left  his  daughter  Mary  Mann  only  £12  a  year,  and  £3  for  her  ‘  buriall.’  Daniel  Partridge 
was  probably  well  off,  for  in  1674  he  occupied  the  second  largest  house  (7  hearths)  in  Capel  S. 
Mary.” 

The  above  arms,  with  a  crescent  for  difference,  were  confirmed  by  Sir  E.  Bysshe  in  1664 
to  Edward  Mann’s  second  son,  Thomas  ;  see  sketch  of  arms  and  pedigree  printed  in  vol.  lxi  of 
The  Publications  of  the  Harleian  Society ,  1910,  p.  56.. 

Bacon’s  Annatts  of  lpsufhe,  1884,  contains  the  following  early  references  to  Manns  of  Ipswich : 
John  le  Man  or  John  Man  in  1327-28  (pp.  59-60),  and  William  Man  in  1409  (p.  88). 


oSlill  of  Thomas  Jlan,  1540. 

In  dei  noie  Amen.  I  Thomas  Man  of  saynt  Lawrence  pish  of  Ippeswich  ....  Mercer, 
....  xiij  day  of  Septembr  In  the  yere  of  or  Lord  god  mcccccxl  .  .  .  my  body  to  be  buryed  in 
the  Cherch  [“  yard  ”  struck  out]  of  the  sayd  saynt  Lawrence  pishe  And  for  breakyng  vp  of  the  grownd 


MANN  OF  IPSWICH. 


77 


wheras  I  shall  be  buryed  I  bequeth  vjs  viijd  And  to  the  repacon  of  the  sayid  pish  Cherch  .  .  .  . 
iijs  iiijd  ....  to  Sebastyan  Man  my  Son  fyftye  pownds  in  mony  ware  &  debtis  as  yt  may  be 
leavyd  of  my  debtis  ...  to  Alyce  Man  my  doughtter  xviij11  ....  to  Johan  Wynd  my  doughtter 
the  wyf  of  Thomas  Wynd  xvj11  ....  to  Margarett  Man  my  brothers  doughtter  xxs  ...  to  Johan 
Man  hyr  Syster  vjs  viijd  ...  to  Margarett  my  wyf  aforsaid  [sic]  the  half  of  my  Shype  callyd  Jhns 
And  thother  half  ...  to  the  sayd  Sebastyan  my  Son  ...  all  my  other  moveables  goods  &  dettis 
Redv  mony  Sylver  Plate  &  other  thyngs  .  .  .  vnto  the  said  Margarett  my  wyf  .  .  .  the  said 
Margarett  my  wyf  &  the  sayd  Sebastyan  my  Son  my  Executors.  Witnesses  :  Syr  Jamys  Crowford, 
pst,  Thomas  Wynd.  Proved  at  Ipswich  4  May,  1541. 

Arch.  Sufi.,  book  xiv,  fo.  39. 


Mill  cf  Jftargaret  Jftan,  154-7-8. 

10  January,  1547[-8].  Will  of  Margaret  Man,  widow,  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Man,  of  St.  Lawrence, 
Ipswich.  I  desire  to  be  buried  in  St.  Lawrence  Church,  near  my  said  husband.  I  bequeath  to 
my  daughter,  Joan  Wynde,  20u.  To  my  daughter,  Alice  Olyver,  25n.  To  my  daughter’s  daughter, 
Margaret  Wynde,  1011  at  her  marriage  or  age  of  18  years.  To  Betteris  Olyver,  10u  at  her  marriage 
or  age  of  18  years.  To  Robert  Valiant,  40s.  To  Thomas  Downyng,  40s.  To  Rose  Facon,  20s.  To 
Margaret  Stane,  20s.  To  Sebastian  Man,  the  younger,  1011  at  his  age  of  21  years.  To  my  son 
Sebastian  Man,  my  best  coverlet,  &  he  to  have  my  plate  &  be  my  executor.  All  my  other  goods 
to  be  divided  among  the  said  Sebastian,  &  my  daughters  Joan  Wynde  &  Alice  Olyver.  Witnesses  ; 
William  Renton,  Henry  Goodwyn,  of  Kesgrave.  Proved  26  October,  1548,  by  John  Gawger,  proctor 
to  the  executor. 

P.C.C.  Populwell,  15. 


(Mill  of  John  JJg.er,  1571* 

12  September,  1571.  Will  of  John  Dyer,  of  St.  Lawrence,  Ipswich,  Suffolk,  a  “porte  man” 

of  said  town.  I  bequeath  to  my  wife,  Katherine,  all  that  my  coital  messuage  &  a  tenement 

adjoining,  where  one  Rayner  now  dwells,  with  all  houses,  yards  &  orchards,  together  with  all  my 
free  lands  situate  in  the  parish  of  St.  Matthew  in  the  suburbs  of  Ipswich.  Also  -four  tenements 
&  gardens  in  St.  George’s  Lane  in  the  parish  of  St.  Matthew,  to  have  &  to  hold  to  said  Katherine, 
for  the  term  of  her  life,  with  reversion,  after  her  death,  to  my  eldest  son,  William,  &  his  heirs, 

for  ever.  To  my  said  wife  all  my  plate,  jewels  &  household  stuff  in  my  house  where  I  now  dwell 

&  in  my  house  at  St.  Matthew’s  aforesaid :  also  to  her,  10  milch  kinc  :  4  quarters  of  wheat,  5 
quarters  of  rye,  10  quarters  of  malt  yearly  out  of  my  farm  of  Brokes  Hall :  also  10011  &  my  gown 
of  scarlet.  To  my  executors  all  my  leases  &  terms  of  years  for  two  whole  years  towards  executing 
my  will  and  paying  the  bequests  therein  made,  after  which  two  years  I  give  the  same  to  my  said 


78 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


son,  William,  with  20  milch  kine,  one  bull,  120  sheep,  20  rams,  12  horses  :  also  to  said  William, 
a  Bible,  the  Paraphrases  on  the  Epistles  of  St.  Paul,  a  book  called  Bullinger  upon  the  Apocalypse, 
a  gown  of  russet  furred  with  foynes,  my  best  cassock  of  grograin  &  1011  to  be  divided  among  his 

children.  To  my  youngest  son  William,  a  bible  of  the  Geneva  translation  &  20u.  To  my  son 

John,  a  bible  of  the  great  volume,  with  all  other  my  books  and  10u  to  be  divided  among  his 
children.  To  my  son-in-law,  William  Saunders,  my  best  gown  of  black  cloth  furred  with  foynes 

&  guarded  with  velvet  &  10u  to  be  equally  divided  among  his  children.  To  my  son-in-law,  John 

Coppynge,  my  black  gown  furred  with  black  coney  &  1011  to  be  divided  among  his  children.  To 
my  son-in-law,  John  Blowers,  611  13s  4d.  To  Thomas  Coppinge  611  13s  4d,  to  Alice  Coppynge  2011. 
To  the  children  of  Thomas  Kennyngton  by  his  late  wife,  Joan,  deceased,  611  13s  4d  among  them, 
&  said  Thomas  to  have  the  pasturing  of  a  gelding  upon  the  Manor  of  Brokes  Hall  during  my 
lease  of  the  same.  To  Dr  Sherman  a  gown  of  black  cloth  with  a  hood,  &  to  his  daughter  Ellen 
Sherman,  40s.  To  my  executors  the  mortgage  or  sale  upon  condition  of  the  Manor  of  Eston  Hall, 
co.  Suffolk,  made  to  me  by  Sir  Robert  Wingfield,  Knt.,  for  the  sure  payment  of  15511  13s  4d  as  by 
Indenture  made  between  us  on  20  September,  9  Elizabeth.  To  Mr  Keyes,  preacher,  a  black  gown 

&  311  6s  8d.  To  ten  poorest  people  of  Ipswich  yearly  for  four  years,  ten  gowns,  20  shirts.  To  the 

building  of  the  hospital  now  begun  in  the  said  town,  1011.  All  the  rest  of  my  goods,  leases  &  so 

forth  to  be  divided  among  my  said  three  sons  &  I  appoint  my  sons,  William  the  elder  &  John  my 

executors,  &  my  wife  and  Dr  Sherman  supervisors  of  my  will. 

Signed,  John  Dier.  Witnesses  :  Allexander  Keye,  Johan  Keye,  Elizabeth  Churcheman.  Proved 
2  October  1571,  by  the  executors  named  in  the  will. 

P.C.C.,  Holney,  38. 


®ill  oi  giatherjme  |pj m  ds.  (Smgth,  1575. 

30  November,  16  Elizabeth.  Will  of  Katheryne  Dyer  ais.  Smyth,  widow  of  John  Dyer  ats. 
Smyth,  of  St.  Lawrence  parish,  Ipswich.  I  desire  to  be  buried  in  St.  Lawrence  Church  or  church¬ 
yard.  I  bequeath  to  Katherine,  wife  of  William  Dyer,  of  Brokes  Hall,  2011,  a  silver  salt  all  gilt 
with  a  boy  in  the  top,  a  gilt  goblet,  6  silver  Apostle  spoons,  a  tablecloth,  a  posted  bed  of  wainscott 
being  in  the  farther  chamber  at  St.  Matthew’s,  my  table  in  the  parlour  at  St.  Lawrence  where  I 
now  dwell,  the  press  in  the  middle  chamber  at  St.  Matthew’s  and  my  Oxford  coverlet.  To  my 
daughter,  Margaret  Sharman,  my  tenement  where  John  Grenelesse  now  dwells,  a  gilt  goblet,  2011, 
six  silver  spoons,  a  canvas  table  cloth,  four  pewter  platters,  four  pewter  dishes,  four  pewter  saucers 
and  a  dripping  pan.  To  my  daughter,  Alice,  wife  of  John  Warde,  2011,  my  tenement  where  Thomas 
Cage  now  dwells,  a  gilt  goblet  with  a  cover,  a  silver  salt  gilt,  12  silver  spoons,  a  posted  bed  of 
wainscot  &  the  trundle  bed  thereunto  belonging,  the  wainscot  table  in  the  parlor  at  St.  Mathew’s, 
the  great  cupboard  in  the  hall  there,  a  bed  and  bolster  of  down  with  the  coverlet  &  blankets,  a 
pair  of  andirons,  a  cistern  of  lead  to  water  fish  in,  a  caldron,  a  dripping  pan  &  a  brass  pot.  To 
my  son,  John  Coppyn,  a  silver  salt  that  was  his  father’s,  six  silver  spoons,  a  silver  goblet  &  four 
pewter  platters.  To  my  grandchild,  Katheryne  Kenyngton  511,  a  featherbed  and  bolster  &  a  flock- 
bed  &  bolster,  four  pairs  of  sheets,  four  pewter  platters,  four  pewter  dishes  &  saucers,  a  candlestick, 
three  silver  spoons,  and  the  counter  table  in  the  kitchen,  with  reversion,  if  she  die  within  a  year 


MANN  OF  IPSWICH. 


79 


after  my  death,  to  her  sister,  Margaret  Kenyngton  &  if  she  die  without  a  year,  to  their  brothers 
Robert  Kenyngton  the  elder,  Thomas  and  Robert  the  younger.  To  said  Margaret  Kenyngton 

511  and  three  silver  spoons  at  her  age  of  16  years.  I  bequeath  for  two  years  after  my  death  to 

ten  poor  men  and  ten  poor  women,  ten  frieze  gowns  &  ten  smocks  at  Christmastide,  that  is  one 
year  the  men  to  have  the  same  and  the  next  year  the  women.  To  my  goddaughter,  Sara  Coppyn, 

a  little  brass  caldron,  a  brass  kettle  and  a  featherbed  &  bolster.  To  Joan  Coppyn,  my  square 

table  in  the  great  chamber.  To  my  goddaughter,  Mary  Dyer,  a  two-eared  pan  of  brass,  a  brass 
kettle,  a  featherbed  &  bolster.  To  my  son,  John  Coppyn,  a  pair  of  andirons  with  flat  heads.  To 
Katherine  Dyer,  the  younger,  my  yellow  chest  in  the  further  Chamber.  To  Margaret  Dyer  my 
little  cupboard  in  the  hall.  To  my  daughter,  Katherine  Dyer,  my  best  cassock  and  kirtle  &  my 
velvet  hat.  All  the  residue  I  give  to  my  daughter  Alice  Coppin  and  I  appoint  my  daughter  Alice 
&  her  husband  John  Warde  my  executors  &  my  son,  John  Coppyn,  &  my  son-in-law,  Thomas 
Kenyngton  my  supervisors. 

Signed  :  Katherine  Dyer  ais  Smyth,  her  mark.  Witnesses  :  George  Coppin,  Christopher  Warde, 
Thomas  Sickelmore.  Proved  4  June,  1576,  by  William  Babham,  public  notary,  proctor  to  the  executors. 

P.C.C.,  Carew,  16. 


SSliU  of  giaphe  $tan  of  JlpsUridte,  1587. 

I,  Raphe  Man  of  Ypswiche  in  co  :  of  Suff  :  marchaunt,  do  make  this  my  last  will  nuncupa¬ 
tive,  disposing  my  goods  as  followth.  Item  I  give  to  my  brother  Bastian  Man  Tenne  pounds 
&  to  eche  of  his  children  now  liuing  fyve  pounds  ....  wch  mony  he  shall  have  in  use  untill 
his  children  come  of  lawfull  yeres.  ...  I  geve  to  my  brother  John  Manne  xx11.  I  geve  to  my 
brother  Edward  Manne  xx11,  &  to  every  one  of  his  twoe  children  v11  apece.  I  geve  to  my  brother 
James  Manne  forty  pounds.  I  geve  to  Johau  Manne,  Mary  Manne  and  Humphry  Manne  fyve 
pounds  a  pece.  I  geve  to  my  father  fyve  pounds.  ...  To  my  brother  Thomas  Manne  his 
children  xx11  a  pece.  To  Alice  Abell  fyve  pounds,  and  to  Susan  my  brother  Thomas’  maide  xxs. 
I  will  that  my  uncle  Thomas  Barbor  shalbe  made  a  saver  for  xx11  he  layd  out  for  me  long  since 
in  bowe  staves  at  London  ;  And  I  will  that  if  God  send  home  my  adventure  that  is  abrode  in 
savetie  that  then  all  these  parts  &  portions  by  me  geuen  shalbe  distributed  by  my  Executor  within 
one  yere  next  after  my  deceasse ;  But  if  any  mishappe  shall  happen,  that  the  Lord  shall  not 
send  it  all  home  in  savetie  or  any  parte  therof,  then  I  will  that  everyone  of  all  theis  parts  & 
portions  before  geven,  that  my  executor  shall  aboote  of  every  portion  according  to  the  losse,  parte 
&  parte  like  equally.  And  I  geue  to  the  poore  of  this  parrish  of  St.  Mary  at  ye  Keye  in  Ypswiche 
xx8,  my  debts  being  paid,  my  legacs  &  bequests  performed  out  of  my  said  goods,  And  my  funerall 
also  discharged  out  of  the  same.  The  rest  I  will  my  brother  Thomas  Manne  shall  have  it  what¬ 
soever  it  be,  whome  I  constitute  my  sole  Executor. 

Spoken  &  noted  this  daie  in  the  presence  of  these  witnesses  1587  p  me  Thoma  Barbor  of  London, 
By  me,  Stephen  Copping. 

Probatum  fuit  ....  apud  Norwicum  die  secundo  mensis  martij  A.D.  1587  et  comissa 
fuit  Administracio  bonorum  Executori  in  dicto  testamento,  &c.,  &c. 

Cur  :  Ep  :  Norvic.,  “  Homes,”  fo.  49. 


80 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


5®iU  of  Sebastian  ^tan,  1594. 

27  December,  37  Elizabeth.  Will  of  Sebastian  Man,  the  elder,  of  Ipswich,  co.  Suffolk,  grocer. 
I  bequeath  to  my  wife,  Emma,  all  my  goods,  chattels,  money,  plate  &  movable  goods  &  desire  her 
to  pay  my  debts.  To  my  son-in-law,  George  Finche,  3011  as  soon  as  he  shall  have  made  my 
daughter,  his  wife,  a  jointure  of  the  clear  yearly  value  of  2011,  for  the  term  of  her  life.  To  my 
son-in-law,  John  Boore,  30H  on  the  same  terms.  To  my  son,  Humfrey  Man,  4011  to  be  paid 
him  at  his  age  of  24  years.  To  my  wife,  Emma,  my  capital  messuage  where  I  now  dwell  & 
where  my  son  John  Boore  likewise  dwells,  &  all  other  my  messuages,  tenements,  gardens  & 
orchards  in  the  parishes  of  St.  Lawrence  &  St.  Nicholas,  Ipswich,  to  have  &  to  hold  to  her  for 
life,  &  after  her  death  to  be  sold  by  my  friends,  Mr  Midnail,  bailiff  of  the  town  of  Ipswich,  Mr 
Smarte,  portman  of  Ipswich,  Thomas  Barber,  of  London,  merchant,  &  Thomas  Glascocke,  of  Ipswich, 
&  the  proceeds  to  be  bestowed  as  follows  : — To  my  son-in-law,  George  Finche,  2011,  to  my  son-in- 
law,  John  Boore,  2011,  to  my  son,  Humfrey,  100u.  If  my  son  Humfrey  be  dead,  then  his 
legacy  to  be  divided  among  said  George  Finche  &  John  Boore  &  my  sons  Thomas  &  James  Man. 
To  my  son,  John  Man,  2011.  To  my  son,  Thomas  Man,  2011.  To  George  Finch,  son  of  my  said 
son-in-law,  1011.  To  my  son,  James  Man,  2011.  To  my  godson,  John  Boore,  1011.  I  make  my 
said  wife  my  executrix  &  my  son-in-law,  John  Boore,  supervisor. 

Signed :  Sebastian  Man.  Witnesses :  John  Lanye,  William  Smarte,  Lionell  Wiethe.  Proved 
6  March,  1594[-5]  by  John  Robinson,  public  notary,  proctor  to  the  executrix. 

P.C.C.  Scott,  20. 


Mill  oi  ®i)toari  Jttan,  1620-1. 

25  January,  1620[-1].  Will  of  Edward  Man,  the  elder,  of  Ipswich,  co.  Suffolk,  merchant.  I 
bequeath  to  my  son,  Edward  Man,  all  my  part  of  the  ship,  the  “  Diamond  ”  &  all  my  part  of  the 
ship,  the  “  Seaflower.”  To  my  son-in-law,  Richard  Wassie,  all  my  part  of  the  ship,  the  “  Swan,” 
he  paying  his  son,  Samuel  Wassie,  2011.  To  my  son,  Edward  Man,  my  mill-stones,  cullen-stones, 
quernc-stones  &  all  other  stones.  To  my  wife  Katherine,  my  messuage  in  the  parish  of  St.  Mary 
at  the  Key,  &  my  tenements  in  the  parish  of  St.  Matthew,  Ipswich,  to  have  and  to  hold  to  her 
for  the  term  of  her  life,  &  after  her  death,  the  same  to  my  said  son,  Edward,  &  his  heirs  for 
ever.  To  my  son-in-law,  John  Flint,  201'.  To  the  minister  preaching  at  my  burial,  20s.  To  the 
poor  of  St.  Mary’s  at  the  Key,  20s.  To  my  sister-in-law,  Mary  Man,  widow,  20s  :  to  John  Tyler, 
20s.  My  wife  shall  have  the  use  of  half  my  plate,  &  after  her  death,  my  son,  Edward,  shall  have 
the  same  :  the  other  half  to  my  said  son.  All  my  other  goods  to  be  equally  divided  between  my 
said  son  &  my  wife  by  my  brother,  John  Man,  my  son  to  enter  into  a  bond  to  pay  my  debts. 
I  make  my  said  wife  and  son  my  executors,  &  my  said  brother  my  supervisor. 

Mark  of  Edward  Man  witnessed  by  John  Harrys  and  John  Tyler  (mark).  Proved  14  February 
1620[-1J  by  the  executors  named  in  the  will. 


P.C.C.  Dale,  13. 


MANN  OF  IPSWICH. 


80a 


Mill  of  John  JEtan,  iiii’4. 

1.  August  1624.  John  Man  of  Bramford  .  .  .  Sufi.,  gent.  .  .  .  vnto  my  Cosen  Edward  Man 
of  Ipswich  All  my  Coppihould  Lands  and  tenements  holden  of  the  Mannor  of  Walton  cum  Trimley 
and  all  other  my  free  and  Coppiehould  Landes  and  Tenementes  in  the  Hundred  of  Colneis.  Alsoe 
.  .  .  in  Sprowton  and  Bramford  .  .  .  [thereout  to  pay]  vnto  Marye  Mann  Widdowe  late  wife  of 
Thomas  Man  my  brother  lioure  Pounds  yerely  .  .  .  vnto  the  said  Edward  Man  for  euer  my  interest 
.  .  .  which  I  haue  of  in  or  to  the  Mannor  of  St.  Peters  .  .  .  And  alsoe  one  Annuity  .  .  .  which  I 

haue  yssueinge  out  of  certen  howses  Lands  ...  in  or  neere  Lincolnes  Inne  ffeilds  in  the  Countie 

of  Middlesex]  beinge  xv11  a  yeare  .  .  .  Unto  my  Cosen  John  Man  sonn  of  my  brother  Thomas 
Man,  All  my  Lands  ...  in  Capell  .  .  .  Unto  Raif  Man  brother  of  the  said  John  Man  one  Messuage 
.  .  .  in  the  parish  of  St.  Peter  in  Ipswich  .  .  .  Unto  James  Man  Sonne  of  my  brother  James 
Man  One  Messuage  ...  in  the  parish  of  Stoke  next  Ipswich  .  .  .  Unto  my  Kinsewoman  Mary 
Acton  10011.  And  if  shee  marrie  with  Richard  Smith  the  Lymeburner  I  will  shee  shall  loose  haulf 
her  portion,  if  my  Cosen  Mr  Edward  Colborne  and  Mr  Peter  Alston  shall  thinke  fitt .  .  .  Unto 
Mris.  Katherine  Clarke  100u  ....  Unto  my  Cosen  John  fflint  and  his  wife  of  Ipswich  100  markes. 
Unto  Mary  Mann  daughter  of  my  brother  James  Man  2011.  .  .  Unto  Dorothy  Man  daughter  of 

Thomas  Man  2011.  .  .  .  Unto  the  wife  of  [blank]  Burrowes  of  Ipswich,  daughter  of  my  brother 

Thomas  Man  2011.  .  .  .  Unto  Mris.  Alston,  wife  of  Mr.  Peter  Alston  one  paire  of  my  best  and  finest 
sheetes.  .  .  .  Unto  John  Colborne  sonne  of  Edward  Colborne  gent.  2011.  .  .  .  Unto  Mr.  ffoster 
parson  of  St.  Mathewes  parish  in  Ipswich  ffourty  shillings  to  buy  him  a  Cloake  .  .  .  [To  poor  of 
parishes  of  St.  Matthew’s  and  Stoke  40s.  each,  and  of  Bramford  511.]  .  .  .  Unto  John  Moise  who 

married  Thomas  Mans  daughter  1011  .  .  .  Unto  his  sonn  Natlianiell  Moise  1011  [at  21]  .  .  .  Unto 

my  Cozen  Mr.  Edward  Colborne  1011  to  buy  him  a  Geldinge.  .  .  .  Unto  my' said  Cozen  Edward 
Man  100011.  .  .  .  Unto  George  Bovill  who  married  my  brother  Sebastian  Mans  daughter  40s  .  .  . 

Unto  my  said  Kinseman  John  Man  lOO11.  .  .  Unto  my  said  Cosen  James  Man  20u.  .  .  Unto  my 

said  Cosen  Ralfe  Man  2011.  .  .  .  My  said  Cosen  Edward  Man  to  be  sole  Executor.  .  .  .  Unto  Sara 
one  of  the  daughters  of  John  Walker  deceased  40s  a  yeare.  .  .  .  Unto  Mr.  Peter  Alston  my  broad  silver 
bowle  parcell  guilt.  .  .  .  10011  [to]  be  bestowed  in  and  about  the  Chargs  of  my  buriall. 

Witnesses  :  Peter  Alston,  Robert  Hamby,  John  Price.  Proved  26  March  1625-6  by  Edward  Man. 

P.C.C.,  Clarke,  33. 


Ilurtcupatibe  Still  of  fLliomas  ill  an,  1669. 

20  October,  1669.  Nuncupative  will  of  Thomas  Man,  Esquire,  of  the  Inner  Temple,  London. 
Bequeaths  to  his  eldest  son  John  10011  a  year  till  he  marries  or  comes  to  the  age  of  25  years, 
&  if  the  copyhold  descending  to  him  does  not  come  to  that  sum,  the  same  to  be  made  up.  He 
desires  all  his  lands  &  manors  of  Whittaker  Burrough,  co.  Norfolk,  near  50011  a  year  to  be  sold 
for  payment  of  his  debts  and  legacies.  To  his  son,  Thomas,  lOOO11  at  his  age  of  24  years  & 
meanwhile  50u  a  year.  To  his  daughter,  Elizabeth,  1000u  at  her  age  of  24  years  or  on  marriage 
with  her  mother’s  consent  &  meanwhile  30u  a  year.  To  his  daughter,  Dorothy,  80011  at  her  age 
of  24  years  or  on  her  marriage,  the  like  to  his  daughter,  Mary,  and  to  the  rest  of  his  daughters 
50011  each  at  the  like  time  &  meanwhile  2011  a  year.  To  his  son,  Edward,  80011  at  age  of  24 
years  &  10011  to  bind  him  apprentice.  To  his  son,  William,  the  reversion  in  Westleton  Hall,  co. 
Suffolk,  devised  to  him  by  Sir  Robert  Brooke  after  the  death  of  Lady  Moys  [?  Blois]  &  meanwhile 


80b 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


10011  to  bind  him  apprentice.  To  his  son  Jeffery,  60011  at  his  age  of  24  &  100"  to  bind  him  apprentice. 
To  his  sister  Jane  Man,  1001',  to  his  sister  Mary  Man,  20h  :  to  his  cousin,  Elizabeth  Stooke,  2011 : 
to  Mr  Roger  Dade,  2011 :  to  Mr  Monday  &  Mrs  Dade,  511.  All  his  lands  in  Somerley,  Bradwell,  Lowne, 
Ashby,  Belton,  Heringfleete  to  his  wife  &  he  makes  her  his  executrix. 

24  November  1669,  Stephen  Munday  &  George  Lee,  Esqr  appeared  &  swore  to  the  above 
will,  having  been  present  when  dictated.  Proved  24  November,  1669,  by  the  executrix. 

P.C.C.  Coke,  145. 


Mill  of  (Sbtoarb  Jflatt,  1670-1. 

In  the  name  of  God  Amen.  I  Edward  Mann  of  Ipswch  in  the  County  of  Suff  thelder  Esqr 
beinge  sicke  and  weake  in  body  ...  to  be  decently  and  privately  buried  by  my  Executor  .  .  . 
in  the  Parrish  Church  of  S*  Mary  att  the  Key  in  Ipswch  aforesaid  as  neere  my  first  wife  as  may 
be  And  as  for  ...  .  worldly  estate  .  .  .  the  same  beinge  not  now  great  because  I  have  disposed 
of  much  already  to  my  Children  therefore  I  can  onely  give  vnto  my  daughter  Jane  Mann  twenty 
shillings  .  .  .  vnto  my  daughter  Mary  Mann  One  Anuity  or  Rent  of  Twelve  pounds  .  .  .  And  .  .  . 
for  her  buriall  when  itt  please  God  itt  shall  happen  three  Pounds  .  .  .  Item  all  my  reall  and 
psonall  estate  ...  I  wholly  give  vnto  my  eldest  sonn  Edward  Mann  wishinge  the  same  had  bine 
more  for  the  Love  I  beare  towards  Mm  .  .  .  make  my  said  sonn  Edward  Mann  sole  Executor. 

Dated  24  Feb.  167f.  Witnesses :  John  Harrison,  Nic.  Osborn.  Proved  at  Ipswich  6  Nov. 
1671  by  the  executor. 

Arch.  Suff.,  1671,  original  will,  122. 

The  will  of  Jane  Mann  of  Ipswich,  singlewoman,  dated  21st  June  1679,  is  printed  in  Suffolk 
Manorial  Families,  vol.  ii,  p.  166.  She  mentions  her  brother-in-law,  Daniel  Partridge,  of  Capel, 
her  sister  Mary  his  wife,  and  Daniel  and  Mary  “  the  cliildren  of  my  said  Brother  and  Sister 
Partridge.”  Mary  Partridge  was  probably  half-sister  to  Thomas  and  Jane  Mann,  for  their  mother 
(Dorothy  Mannock)  d.  in  1629,  and  Mary’s  husband,  Daniel  Partridge,  was  not  baptised  till  1642. 
Mary  may  perhaps  be  the  Katherine,  daughter  of  Edward  Man,  baptised  at  St.  Mary-Quay  in  1634, 
and,  if  so,  was  eight  years  older  than  Daniel  Partridge.  Edward  Mann  had  a  wife  named  Eliza¬ 
beth  living  in  1644.  (See  Suffolk  Manorial  Families,  vol.  ii,  pp.  166-167.) 


jHann  of  Kpstotrl). 


i - 

Edward  Man,  a  wine=p 
marchant  in  Ipswich. 


I 


John  [?  Thomas]  Man,  a  grocer. 

I 

John  Man. 


~1 

....  Man,  commonly  called 
Usurer  Man,  s.p.  [?  John  Man, 
of  Bramford.  Will  1624], 


Elizabeth,  daughter  of 


Brocke,  of  Southold,  in  Suff.,  and  of 


daughter  of  Sr  Ralph  Wiseman,  of  Rivenall,  neere  Esterford,  in  Essex, 
sister  to  Sr  Thomas. 


,=f=Edward  Man,  of — ... 


Ipswich,  gent. 


I - 

Edward  Man,  of — Martha,  da.  of  Francis  Nicholson, 
Ipswich,  Esqr.  sometimes  of  Ipswich,  Esqr. 


- 1 - 

Elizabeth  Man,  mar¬ 
ried  to  .  .  .  Wasse, 
of  Ipswich. 


Tanner  MS.  257,  fol.  170, 


i 

Katharine 

Man. 


Oxford. 


MANN  OF  IPSWICH, 


80C 


JHan  of  Epstotrl). 


Tho.  Man,  of  S.  Law¬ 
rence,  Ips.,  mercer  ; 
of  Ips.  1524.  Will  13 
Sep  1540,  pr  Arch. 
Suff.  4  May  1541  ;  bur. 
in  S.  Lawrence’s  Ch., 
5  Jan.  154f 


I — i - 

Joan,  w.  of 
Tho.Wynd. 

Alice,  mar. 
John  Oliver 
at  S.  Nich., 
Ips.,  1542. 


:  Margaret  .  .  .  . ; 
Will  lOJan.  154|, 
pr.  P.C.C.  26  Oct. 
1548 ;  bar.  at  S. 
Lawrence  15Feb. 
1545. 


(1)  ?  .  .  ,=f  John  Dyer  alias  Smith,  of  S.  Law-=(2)  Kath . ,  mar.  John= 


rence,  Ips.,  merchant ;  b.  1499- 
1500  (aged  68  in  1568,  Bacon’s 
Ann.  of  Ips.,  p.  277).  Will  12  Sep. 
1571,  pr.  P.C.C.  2  Oct.  1571  ;  bur. 
at  S.  Lawrence,  19  Sep.  1571. 


Dyer  at  S.  Lawrence 25  Jan. 
154|-  Will  30  Nov.  1573, 
pr.  P.C.C.  4  June  1576; 
bur.  at  S.  Lawrence  6  June 
1576. 


:(1)  .;.  . 

Copping. 


(1)  Beatrice  Bar¬ 
ber,  sister  of  Tho. 
Barber  (?  of  Lon¬ 
don  in  1587)  ;  m. 
at  S.  Lawrence, 
Ipswich,  9  April 
1643. 


Sebastian  Man,  of  Ips.,: 
grocer  ;  his  parents’  ex¬ 
ecutor  1540  and  154|-. 
Will  27  Dec.  1594,  pr. 
P.C.C.  6  Mar.  159|;  bur. 
at  S.  Lawrence  18  Feb. 
159|. 


Emma,  sis¬ 
ter  of  Tho. 
and  John 
Sturgeon. 
Will  dat.  & 
pr.  Arch. 
Suff.  1601. 


John 
Dyer,  m. 
1571  Eliz. 

. . 

and  had 
issue. 


William1 
Dyer  the 
younger, 
m.  1576 
at  S. Mat¬ 
thew’s, 
Ipswich. 


Beatrice  Noon, 
da.  of  (?  Francis 
Noon,  of  Martle- 
sham,  by  Anne, 
dau.  of  Sir  Tho. 
Jermyn,  of 
Rushbrooke). 


William  Dyer= 
the  elder,  of 
Broke’s  Hall, 
Ips. ;  bur.  at 
S.  Matthew’s, 
31  December 
1599. 


V 


Sebastian1  Man,  de¬ 
visee  in  grandmother’s 
Will  154^,  and  in  bro¬ 
ther  Ralph's  1587.  His 
son-in-law,  Geo.  Bovill, 
was  devisee  in  John 
Man’s  Will  1624. 


Raph  Man, 
of  Ipswich, 
merchant. 
Will  1587, 
pr.  at  Nor¬ 
wich  2  Mar. 

168J. 


(1)= 


John  Man,  of  Bramford,  gent. 
(?  “Usurer  Man”).  Will  1 
Aug.  1624;  lands  at  Walton, 
Trimley,  Sproughton,  Bram¬ 
ford,  Manor  of  S.  Peter’s  in 
Ips.,  London,  Capel,  Stoke 
next  Ips. ;  pr.  P.C.C.  26  Mar. 
162§  by  nephew  Edw.  Man. 


I 

= James  Man,  of: 
Ips.,  marryner. 
Will  26  Ap.  1626 
(supervisor  Edw. 
Mann,  of  Ips., 
gent.),  pr.  Arch. 
Suff.13  Dec. 1627. 


:(2)  Joan,  sis¬ 
ter  of  Thos. 
Dade, of  Cot¬ 
ton.  Will 
dat.  and  pr. 
Arch.  Suff. 
1631. 


T 


Joan,  w.  of 
Geo.  Finch 
in  1594. 

Mary,  w.  of 
John  Boore 
in  1594. 


- 1 

Cath. 

(?  Cop¬ 
ping), 

bur.  at 
S.  Matt., 
Ipswich, 
22  March 
159§. 


“I 
I  L 


N  f 


Humfrey 
Man,  b.  af¬ 
ter  1569; 
devisee  in 
parents’ 
Wills  1594 
(not  then 
24)  and 
1601. 


Tho.  Manne,  his=jf=Mary 


~r~ r 


bro.  Raph’s  ex¬ 
ecutor  1587,  de¬ 
visee  1594  and 
1601. 


described  as 
widow  in 
162$  and 
1624. 


Edward  Man,  of  Ipswich,  wine  merchant;  bap.  at  S.=f=Cath.  Dyer,  bap.  at  S.  Marg.  Dyer.  bap.  1563. 


Lawrence  18  Oct.  1552;  devisee  in  bro.  Raph’s  Will 
1587;  Will  25  Jan.  162$,  pr.  P.C.C.  14  Feb.  162$;  d. 
27  Jan.  1622  (slab  in  S.  Mary-at-the-Quay  Church, 
Ipswich). 


John  Mann,=f?  (Rath.,  dan.  of 


“1  T 

Dorothy  Mann, 


Matt.  26  June  1562 ; 
mar.  there  13  Jan.l58f ; 
her  husband’s  execu¬ 
trix  162$. 


(?)  Mary  Dyer,  mar. 
John  Liste  1572  at  S. 
Matthew’s. 


,  w.  of  Raph  Man,  of=p Alice  Eliz.,  w.  of  Rich.  (1)  Eliz.= 


Male  children 
mentioned  in 
Raph  Man’s 
Will  1625. 


Mary  Mann,  bap. 
at  S.  Mary  Quay 
1617. 


Thomas  Man,  de-  Edward  Man,  bap. 
visee  in  father’s  at  S.  Mary  Quay 
Will,  under  24.  1614  ;  devisee  1625. 


Sebastian  Man,  bap. 
at  S.  Mary  Quay 
1618. 


T 

:Edw.  Mann,=p(2)  Dor¬ 
othy 
Man- 
nock. 


bap.  at  S. 

Barth.  Brookeor 

devisee  1624. 

JohnMoise. 

Ips.,  grocer  ; 
Will  dat.  and 

.  .  .  Wassie. 

Brooke 

of  S.  Mary 

Mary  Quay, 

Brocke,  of  Wor- 

— 

— 

— 

or 

Quay,  Ips., 

Ips.,  1582; 

lingworth. sister 

.  .  .  ,  w.  of  .  .  . 

Mary,  w.  of 

pr.  Arch.  Suff. 

Rath.,  m.  1619  at 

Brocke. 

Esq. ;  bap. 

his  brother 
Raph’s  exor. 
1625. 

1 - 

of  first  wife  of 
Edward  Mann.) 

- 1 

Burrowes,  of 
Ipswich,  1624. 

r 

....  John¬ 
son. 

“T 

1625. 

J 

S.  Stephen,  Ips., 
John  Flint,  wid.; 
both  devisees  of 
John  Man  1624. 

1 

159$;  bur. 
there  167$. 

f  'J' 

See  Mann  of  S.  Mary-at-the- 
Quay,  Ipswich. 


1  In  1576  Martha,  daughter  of  Margery  Bradstreet,  of  Buxhall,  widow,  was  wife  of  Sebastian  Man. — J.  J.  Muskett. 


SOD 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


fHamt  of  0.  fHnry  at  t|)c  ^uny,  EpsUnrij. 


(1)  Elizabeth,  da.  of  Barth.  =j=  Edward  Mann,  of  S.  Mary-at-=j=(2)  Dorothy,  da.  of  Anthony-p(3  or  4)  “  Cousin  Eliz.  Mann, 


Brooke,  of  Southolt  and  Wor- 
lingworth,  Suff.,  by  Elizabeth, 
his  first  wife,  da.  of  Sir  Ralph 
Wiseman ;  bur.  in  S.  Mary 
Quay  Church  102 — ,l 

(1)  Avice,  da.  and  coh.  of  Jeff.= 

Pitman,  of  Woodbr.,  Esq.,  bap. 

159|,  mar.  1618,  bur.  1633. 


the-Quay,  Ipswich,  Esq. ;  bap. 
there  159? ;  bur.  at  S.  Mary 
Quay  28  Feb.  167?.  Will 
dated  24  Feb.  167?,  pr.  6  Nov. 
1671  (Arch.  SufE.). 


:William  Alston,  of  Marlesford. 
Will  pr.  6  Aug.  1641  (P.C.C.). 


Mannock,  of  Stoke-by-Nay- 
land ;  mar.  settlement  dated 
12  Oct.  1625 ;  d.  16  Nov.  1629, 
slab  in  S.  Mary-at-Stoke  Ch., 
Ipswich ;  bur.  there  18  Nov. 


wife  of  sd.  Edward  Mann,  of 
Ipswich,”  is  mentioned  in 
will  of  Arthur  Hopton,  of 
London,  gent.,  24  May  1644. 


h 


jL 


(1)  Eliz.  Mann,=f  Samuel  Alston,  = 


bap.  5 


March 
Mary 
Quay ;  mar.  c. 
9  May  1650  ;  d. 
before  husband 
was  21,  leaving 
dau.  aged  c.  1£ 
years. 


of  Marlesford, 
gent.,b.  c.  1630. 
Will  dated  5 
Deo.  1675,  pr. 
20  June  1676 
(P.C.C.) 


:(2)  Alice,2 
da.ofFras. 
Nicholson, 
ofChappel, 
Esq. ;  bur. 
at  Marles¬ 
ford  1686. 


r 


Eliz.  Alston,  =f  Tlio.  Mann,  of 


V 

See  Cresswell’s  Stemmata 
Alstoniana,  p.  8. 


baptized  at 
Wood  bridge 
1627.  Will 
dated  8  Jan. 
168? ;  bur.  at 
Yoxford,  17 
Feb.  169?. 


Elizabeth  Alston,  only  child  :  unmar.  6  Dec.  1682  ;  mar. 
.  .  .  Rookwood.  She  and  her  husband  are  mentioned  in  her 
half-sister,  Alice  Alston’s,  will  18  Sept.  1694. 
r . J 

Hannah  Rookwood  is  mentioned  as  kinswoman 


Yoxford,  Usher 
of  the  Rolls  ; 
bapt.  7  March 
162?  at  S.  Mary 
Quay.  Will  dat. 
29  Oct.  1669, 
pr.  24  Nov. 1669. 
(His  godfather 
was  Tho.,  Visct. 
Savage,  of  Long 
Melford, who  in¬ 
herited  a  large 
estate  thro’  his 
grandmother, 


Jane  Mann, 
of  Ipswich, 
bap.26  June 
1628  at  S. 
Mary  Quay. 
Will  dat.  21 
June  1679 ; 
bur.  17  Aug. 
1679  at  S. 
MaryQuay. 
Will  pr.  29 
June  1681 
(Arch. 
Suff.),  see 
S.M.F.,  vol. 
ii,  p.  166. 


Kath.  [?  error  for  “Mary”]  Mann, 
bap.  27  July  1634  at  S.  Mary  Quay  j 
no  further  mention  of  her.1 


Mary  Mann,  bapt.=f=Daniel  Partridge 


devisee  in 
her  brother  (p  half 
brother)  Tho. Mann’s 
Will,  29  Oct.  1669  j 
devisee  in  her  fa¬ 
ther’s  Will,  24  Feb. 
167? ;  mar.  lie.  15 
Mar.  167°  ;  mar.  23 
Mar.  167?  at  S. 
Clem.,  Ips. ;  devisee 
in  her  sister  (?  half 
sister)  Jane  Mann’s 
Will,  21  June  1679, 
as  wife  of  Dan.  Part¬ 
ridge,  of  Capel ;  bur. 


in 

Alice  Alston’ 

s  Will  1694. 

169? 

at  Holton. 

r 

John  =t=  Mary,  da. 

n  r 

Thomas 

Dorothy  Mann,4 

1 - 

Edward 

1 

Mary 

William 

~i  r 

Marg.  Mann,4  b. 

”1  l 

Chas.  Mann, 

Mann,3 

of  Edward 

Mann.8 

b.  10  Sept.  1653  ; 

Mann,3 

Mann,4 

Mann,7 

1659. 

b.  1666. 

eldest 

Hinton,  of 

— 

mar.  Win,  Betts,3 

b.  1655. 

b.  1657; 

b  1658. 

— 

— 

son. 

Bourton, 

Berkshire. 

Eliz. 

Mann.3 

of  Yoxford,  gent. 
His  Will  dated  17 
Jan.  1708  ;  bur.  at 
Yoxford  3  March 
1709. 

?  wife  of 

Brockden 
in  17?§. 

Jeffrey 

Mann.6 

Martha  Mann,7 

?  wife  of . 

Cuddy  in  17?§. 

Jane  Mann,4 
b.  1667,  wife 
of  .  .  .  Mann¬ 
ing  in  17?|. 

of  Holton  S. 
Mary,  gent,  (yeo¬ 
man)  ;  bapt.  20 
Oct.  1642  at  Hig- 
ham  ;  lived  suc¬ 
cessively  at  Hol¬ 
ton,  Capel  S. 
Mary,  and  East 
Berghoitjdevisee 
in  Jane  Mann’s 
Will  1679;  bur. 
1686  at  Holton; 
Will  pr.  Arch. 
Suff.  16  Aug. 
1692. 


Mary  Partridge, 
only  dau.,  bap. 
1674  at  Capel ; 
devisee  in  Aunt 
Jane  Mann’sWill 
1679  ;  mar.  twice 
but.  ob.  s.p.  173?. 


Eleanor=i=  Rob.  Mann,  of  Lond.,  afterwards  of  Linton, 


Guise. 

r~ 


co.  Kent,  Esq. ;  d.  1752. 


Daniel  Partridge,  only  son,  bapt.  1674  at  Holton  ;  devisee  in  Aunt 
Jane’s  Will  1679 ;  d.  17f§. 


Sir  Horatio  Mann,  K.C.B.,  became  in  1740  Minister  at  Florence;  created  baronet  1755  ;  ob.  s.p.  1786,  and 
was  succeeded  by  his  nephew,  Sir  Horatio  Mann,  who  m.  Lucy,  dau.  of  Baptist  Noel,  fourth  Earl  of 
Gainsborough.  Catherine  Mann,  sister  of  the  second  baronet  mar.  James  Cornwallis,  Bishop  of  Lichfield 
and  Coventry,  and  fourth  Earl  Cornwallis;  and  their  son  James,  fifth  Earl,  of  Linton  Place,  Kent, 
assumed  in  1814  the  surname  of  Mann.  See  Betham’s  Baronetage,  vol.  iii,  pp.  254-256. 


Partridges  of  Shelley 
Hall,  Suff.  See  Mus- 
kett’s  Suffolk  Manorial 
Families,  vol.  ii,  pp. 
165-170. 


(1)  Martha,2  da.  of  Fras.  Nicholson,  of=f=Edward  Mann,  of  S.  Nich.,  Ips.,  Esq.,= 


Essex,  Esq.,  and  sister  of  Otho  Nicholson, 
M.D.;  bur.in  S.  Nich.  Church,  Ips.,  1674. 


bapt.  8  Oct.  1618  at  S.  Mary  Quay.  Will 
dat.  23  Mar.  16g§,  pr.  27  Nov.  1680 
|(P.C.C.). 

See  Mann  of  S.  Nicholas,  Ipswich. 


(2)  Ann,  da.  and  coh.  of  James  Wythe,  of  Framsden, 
gent.,  and  widow  of  Rob.  Marriott,  of  Bredfield,  Esq., 
who  d.  20  Jan.  167§,  his  Will  pr.  15  June  1676 
(P.C.C.). 


(1)  Mary=T=Edward  Mann,  of  Framsden,  only  child  ;=(2)  Deborah, da.  of  Barnaby  Gibson,  of  Stonham  Parva,  gent,  (grandson  of  above 
bap.  22  Jan.  16J§  at  S.  Nich.,  Ipswich  ;  James  Wythe,  of  Framsden),  and  wid.  of  Simon  Blomfield  of  Mendlesham,  gent. ; 

mar.  172?  at  Barking. 


devisee  in  father’s  Will  16|§. 


Edward  Mann,  of  Framsden; 
admitted  Woodbr.  School  1713. 


Thomas  Mann,  of  Framsden, 
admitted  Woodbr.  School  1717. 


James  Mann,  bap.  at 
Framsden  1706. 


John  Mann,  bap.  at  Framsden  1707  ; 
admitted  Woodbr.  School  1719. 


1  Registers  of  S.  Mary  Quay,  Ipswich :  marriages  do  not  begin  till  1653  ;  no  burial  entries  between  1607  and  1653. 

2  Probably  sisters. 

3  Mentioned  in  Will  of  Jane  Mann,  spinster,  of  Ipswich,  21  June  1679. 

4  See  notes  of  3,  5,  and  6. 

5  Mentioned  in  Will  of  Alice  Alston,  of  Sibton,  spinster,  18  Sept.  1694. 

6  Mentioned  in  Will  of  Mary  Alston,  of  Reading,  spinster,  19  Feb.  17?§. 

'  See  notes  of  3  and  5. 


MANN  OF  IPSWICH. 


80e 


JHann  of  iUdjolas,  EjisUndj. 

Edward  Mann,  b.  1618-19;  d.  4  April  1680,=r=(l)  Martba  Nicolson,  bur.  in 


aged  61 ; 

M.I.  in  S.  Nicholas  Church.  |  S.  Nicholas  31  Oct.  1674. 

L 

1 

Edward  Mann,  bap. 

6  June  1649  at  S. 
Nicholas,  Ipswich ; 
bur.  there  9  Ap.1674. 

l 

James  Mann, 
bap.  at  S. 
Nich.,  Ips., 
27Nov.l650. 

i 

Francis  Mann, 
bap.  at  S.  Nich., 
Ips.,  26  Mar., 
1652. 

r 

Elizabeth  Mann,  bap. 
at  S.  Nich.,  Ips.,  23 
Oct.  1654 ;  survived 
her  father. 

i 

Mary  Mann,  bap. 
at  S.  Nich.,  Ips., 

28  Jan.  165§  ;  bur. 
there  23  Oct.  1662. 

~T  “1 

Hannah  Mann,  bap. 
at  S.  Nich.,  Ips.,  17 
Mar.l65f ;  bur.  there 

13  Aug.  1658. 

I - 

Hannah  Mann,  bap. 
at  S.  Nich.,  Ips.,  14 
April  1659 ;  survived 
her  father. 


Otho  Mann,  bap.  at  S.  Nich.,  Ips., 
April  1660;  survived  his  father. 
Will  (of  Bucklesham,  gent.,)  15 
March  170A,  pr.  at  Ips., 9  May  1702. 


Eleanor  Mann,  bap. 
at  S.  Nicholas,  Ips., 
12  Dec.  1661 ;  sur¬ 
vived  her  father ; 
F  mar.  .  .  .  Puckle. 


John  Mann,  bap. 
at  S.  Nich.,  Ips., 
6  Dec.  1662. 


Thomas  Mann,  bap.  at 
S.  Nich  ,  Ips.,  25  April 
1664 ;  survived  his 
father. 


Mary  Mann,  bap.  at  S.  Nich., 
Ips.,  5  July  1665 ;  bur.  there 
14  July  1671. 


Susannah,  bur.  at 
S.  Nich.  29  Dec. 
1670. 


! - 

Felton  Mann, 
survived  his 
father. 


Monumental  Insaiptum*- 

Slab  in  S.  Mary-at-the-Quay  Church.  The  inscription  runs  frame-wise  round  the  slab : — 

HERE  LYETH  THE  BODY  OF  EDWARD  MAN  SENIOR  /  OF  IPSWICH  MARCHANT  /  WHO  DEPARTED 
THIS  LYFE  THE  XXVIITH  DAY  OF  /  IANVARIE  1620. 


Slab  in  S.  Mary-at-Stoke  Church,  on  the  floor  of  the  north  aisle.  The  inscription  runs  frame- 
wise  round  the  slab  : — 

HERE  LYETH  BURYED  THE  /  BODYE  OF  DORATHYE  MANN  WHO  WAS  THE  SECOND  WIFE  /. 
OF  EDWARD  MANN  ESQVIRE  /  AND  DEP’tED  HER  LIFE  ON  MVNDAYE  THE  XVI  OF  NOVEM  : 

1629. 


Extract  from  register  of  S.  Mary-at-Stoke  : — 

1629.  . . .  Man  wife  of  Edward  Man  of  the  key  parish  was  buried  the  18th  of  November. 

Slab  on  floor  of  S.  Nicholas  Church,  Ipswich,  just  East  of  the  font. 

Arms  : — On  a  fesse  counter-embattled  between  three  goats  as  many  roundels  {Mann) : 
impaling  ;  (1)  Two  bars  in  chief  three  suns  (Nicolson),  (2)  Three  griffins  passant  in 
pale  (Withe).  (The  two  impaled  shields  are  arranged  per  fesse). 

Crest : — A  demi  dragon. 

Here  Lieth  the  Body  of  Edward  /  Mann,  Esqr  son  of  Edward  Mann  Esqr  /  his 

FIRST  WIFE  WAS  MARTHA  DaVGHTER  /  OF  FRANCIS  NlCOLSON  IN  ESSEX  EsQR  HE  /  HAD 
BY  HVR  8  SoNES  &  7  DaVGHTERS  /  WHERE  OF  3  SoNNS  &  3  DaVGHTERS  /  ARE  NOW 
Living,  Otho  Tho  :  and  /  Ffelton  El^abeth  Hannah  &  Elinor  /  he  Died  the  4th 
of  April  An°  Dom  1680  /  Aged  61  /  his  Second  wife  was  the  Relect  /  bF  Robert 
Marriott  of  Breadfield  /  Esqr  Davghter  of  James  Withe  /  of  Framesdon,  Gent,  he 

HAD  BY  /  HER  ONE  SONNE  EDWARD  /  WHO  IS  NOW  LIVING. 


t 

' 


'  - 


; 


r 


; 

. 

v 


- 

■ 

■ 


’ 

-  ■  - 

V 


..... 


VOL.  III. 

Suffolk 


PART  3. 


* H  S~ZO<±,  ,  n  0 

3-Z'j 

Families, 


BEING 

County  (fttetfaftone  anb  ot0ev  (pedigrees, 

EDITED,  WITH  EXTENSIVE  ADDITIONS, 


BY  THE  LATE 

JOSEPH  JAMES  MUSKETT, 

AND  CONTINUED  BY 

FREDERIC  JOHNSON. 


It  is  the  Editor’s  desire  to  make  this  work  an  exhaustive  resume  of  the  Genealogy  of  the 
County.  It  will  be  issued,  to  Subscribers  only,  in  Parts  of  forty  pages,  price  5s.  each,  and  the 
number  will  be  restricted  to  150  copies.  Communications  to  he  addressed  to  the  Editor, 
Mr.  F.  Johnson,  8,  Theatre  Street,  Norwich. 


PRIVATELY  PRINTED. 


EXETER : 

WILLIAM  POLLARD  k  Co.  Ltd.,  PRINTERS  &  LITHOGRAPHERS,  NORTH  STREET. 

1911. 


Suffolk  JHanorial  Jfamtltcs. 


The  regretted  death  of  Mr.  J.  J.  MuskETT,  the  originator  of 
this  Work,  in  December  last,  has  left  the  third  volume  in  an  incomplete 
state,  and  at  the  request  of  several  subscribers  I  have  been  asked 
to  continue  it. 

This  I  am  willing  to  do,  although  conscious  of  my  inability  to 
do  it  in  the  very  thorough  way  in  which  it  has  been  done ;  but  I  am 
ready  to  do  all  I  can  to  carry  it  on,  provided  I  can  obtain  sufficient 
subscribers  to  insure  me  against,  at  any  rate,  pecuniary  loss. 

If  the  old  subscribers  will  continue  to  support  me,  I  think  I 
may  be  able  to  succeed. 

Sufficient  matter  for  another  one,  if  not  two,  Parts  is  in  hand, 
and  I  only  await  a  response  to  this  circular  to  place  the  work  in 
the  printer’s  hands. 

FREDERIC  JOHNSON. 


8,  Theatre  Street, 
Norwich. 


Part  III  .  is  issued  in  advance 
of  Part  II.  as  the  matter  was 
in  a  more  forward  state. 


Cljapltn  of  #lonfss  €lctgh. 


An  early  reference  to  this  family  may  be  found  in  the  fragmentary  series  of  Court  Rolls, 
now  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office  (Ecclesiastical  Commissioners,  Monks  Eleigh  Court  Rolls, 
t6  to  4:1)  as  follows  : — 

if  Die  Mart  in  fest  Sci  Pet  advincula,  1  Hen.  Y  (August  1,  1413). 

Johis  Beneyt  p  lie  con  cum  Johe  Chapeleyn  in  plo  debi,  &c.,  &c. 

Die  Mart  in  fest  Sci  Pet  advincula,  7  Hen.  V  (August  1,  1419). 

Job  Chapeleyn,  Simon  Fuller  T  Job  Wyndecole  Juh  ostend  quand  cartam  p  qua  pquiS 
de  Job  Bond  T  Wilt  Shopp  unam  pec!  tr  in  Illeigh  Monach  [ — ]  ilf  T  her  eo^  Et  fee  dho  fidet. 

In  1504,  Robert  Russhebrookes,  of  Monkes  Eleigh,  by  his  will  (P.C.C.  19  Holgrave)  appoints 
his  friend  Thomas  Chaplen,  of  Monks  Eleigh,  one  of  the  supervisors,  and  it  seems  not  unlikely 
that  this  Thomas  was  the  father  (or  at  most,  grandfather)  of  the  Stephen  Chaplin  with  whom  the 
pedigree  starts,  for  in  a  rental  of  1544  “  the  wife  of  Thomas  Chaplen  ”  paid,  amongst  others,  a 
rent  of  5fd  for  a  tenement  wrhich  was  certainly  in  the  possession  of  the  family  in  1583,  while 
“  Stevyn  Chaplen  for  his  father  ”  pays  13d  for  another  tenement. 

In  the  Lay  Subsidy  Rolls  of  Henry  VIII,  we  find  this  Stephen  Chaplen  in  1524  described 
as  a  labourer,  or  servant,  and  as  such  he  probably  assisted  his  father  in  farming.  In  1541,  he 
pays  10s  upon  goods  assessed  at  £20,  and  in  1546,  in  which  year  he  purchased  Cobbolds  Mill  and 
several  acres  of  land,  he  pays  12s  upon  lands  assessed  at  £6.  Finally,  in  1566,  four  years  before 
his  death,  he  pays  10s  on  goods  assessed  at  £12. 


(Util!  of  (Stephen  Qlhaplin,  1570. 

June  4th  1570.  Stephen  Chappelene  of  Monkese  Illeighe  in  the  Countye  of  Suffolke  &  Dioces 
of  Canterbury,  yoman.  I  give  to  Katheryn  my  wife  £40,  &  £4  a  year  out  of .  the  mill  called  Cobollf 
Mill  &c.  whereof  she  is  enfeoffed,  also  the  one  half  &  ympleaments  of  household  stuffe  saving  the 

plor  chamber  which  I  will  shall  remaine  hole  as  it  is  unto  John  my  son  except  my  said  wife’s 

cupboard  the  which  I  will  that  she  shall  have.  To  her  for  life  my  tenement  called  Barrettf, 
afterwards  to  James,  my  son.  To  John  my  son  the  lease  of  my  farme  wherein  I  now  dwell 
also  the  other  half  &  ympleaments  of  household  stuffe  &c.,  &  the  plor  hole  as  it  is  except  before 
excepted.  To  Robert  my  mill  called  Cobbollf  Myll  &  the  meadow  called  Myll  Meadowe  (7  acres)  the 
garden  called  Turners  Yarde,  &  MyllFelde  (16  acres)  on  condition  that  he  pays  £40  to  John  within 
four  years,  &  £4  a  year  to  my  wife.  To  Nicholas  &  James  my  sons,  land  in  Chelsworth  called 
Tybbotts.  To  Nicholas  also  the  tenement  called  Cutlers  in  Monks  Eleigh  where  James  Peryt  now 
dwells  &  to  James  a  tenement  in  Monks  Eleigh  called  Leggf  where  Robert  Maue  now  dwelleth. 
To  Stephen  my  son  a  tenement  in  Fenstreete  in  Monks  Eleigh,  called  Hubbards,  of  which  John 

Rutland  is  the  tenant.  To  my  daughter  Alice  40s  at  the  age  of  18.  To  Marione  £10  at  20,  to 

Mary  £5,  to  Elizabeth  &  Susanna  40s  each,  &  to  Katheryn  £5  at  18.  To  Elizabeth  Chappelen 


82 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


daughter  of  Thomas  Chappelen  40s  at  21.  To  each  grandchild  6s  8d  at  the  age  of  21.  To  the 
poore  of  Monks  Eleigh  three  seame  of  maulte  &  six  bushel  wheate.  I  give  to  [ — *]  my  house 
where  James  Rutland  lives.  Witnesses — Robert  Rutland  the  elder,  Stephen  Rutland,  &  Thomas 
Slowe.  I  give  to  Andrewe  the  house  that  Matthew  dwelleth  in  .  .  .  Robert  Chaplin,  supervisor, 

to  whom  20s  ;  my  sons  John  &  Nicholas,  executors.  Proved  by  Nicholas  and  John,  August  3rd,  1571. 

P.C.C.  35,  Holnev. 


Mill  of  fmtlurjme  Chaplin,  1596. 

Katheryne  Chaplyn  of  Nawton,  Suffolk,  widdowe,  January  28th,  38  Elizabeth.  I  give  my  soul 
to  God  &  my  body  to  Christian  Burial.  To  the  poor  people  of  Nawton  aforesaide  10s.  To  my 
son  Robert  Offwood  and  his  heirs  for  ever  all  my  houses  &  lands  with  their  appurtenances  situate 
jn  Fen  Streete  in  Monk  Elleighe,  in  Suffolk,  in  consideration  of  his  paying  my  son  John  Offwood, 
his  brother  ;  Stephen  Chaplyn,  my  son  ;  Richard  Chaplyn,  my  son ;  Mary  Ann  Smythe,  my  daughter, 
&  Andrew  Chaplyn,  my  son,  £5 . 13 . 4  each.  I  give  the  residue  to  my  said  five  children  &  appoint 
my  son  Robert  Offwood  my  sole  executor.  Witnesses — Thomas  .Grymwade,  William  Grymwade, 
Proved  by  Robert  Offwood,  October  16th  1596,  in  the  Consistory  Court  of  the  Diocese  of  Norwich. 


Mill  of  Nicholas  Chaplin,  1604. 

May  14th  1604.  Nicholas  Chaplin  of  Chelsworth,  yeoman.  To  the  poor  of  Chelsworth  6s  8d. 

Mv  executor  hereafter  named  to  enter  upon  my  lands  in  Chelsworth,  except  the  tenement  where 

my  son  Richard  lives.  All  my  lands  to  my  two  sons  (Stephen)  Chaplin  &  Richard  Chaplin.  To 

Stephen  my  son,  the  house  in  which  I  live.  My  loving  friend  Robert  Munning  of  Mounks  Elleighe. 

My  cosine  Josuah  Warde.  Margaret  my  lovinge  wife.  To  the  children  of  Stephen  &  Richard  6s  8d 
each  at  the  age  of  21.  To  the  ten  preachers  hereafter  named,  Mr.  Knewstubb,  Mr.  Welshe,  Mr. 
Grandish,  Mr.  Sande,  Mr.  Browne,  Mr.  Sawmon,  Mr.  Wolfenden,  Mr.  Tho.  Chaplin,  Mr.  John  Chaplin 
&  Mr.  Thomas  Chamber  to  everie  of  them  a  pair  of  winter  gloves  to  be  bought  &  deliued  at  the 
discretion  of  my  executor.  I  make  Thomas  Chamber,  Clarke,  my  son  in  law,  sole  executor,  but  if 
he  will  not,  then  my  cosin  Abraham  Chaplin  of  Ketton,  tholder.  Witnesses — James  Wolphenden, 
Robert  Munning,  Junr,  Robert  Chaplin,  Josua  Ward.  Proved  June  6th  1604,  by  Thomas  Chambers. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Register  1604,  fo.  320. 


Mill  of  Janus  (Chaplin,  1617. 

February  5th  1617.  James  Chaplin  of  Kettlebarston  yeoman,  sicke.  To  Maryan  Chaplin 
my  wife,  the  lease  of  my  lands  in  Kettlebarston  (the  inheritance  whereof  I  sold  to  Richard  Gooddaie 
thelder  of  Kettlebarston,  now  of  Hadleigh,  gent.)  &  all  moveables.  To  Stephen  Chaplin  son 
of  my  eldest  brother  John  40s.  To  George  Chaplin  my  godson,  the  sonnes  son  of  my  brother 
Robert  Chaplin  £3.  To  Margaret,  daughter  of  Stephen,  son  of  Nicholas  my  brother  20s.  To 


1  Richard,  see  will  of  widow  below. 


CHAPLIN  OF  MONKS  ELEIGH 


83 


Elizabeth  Cooke,  now  wife  of  Isaac  Cooke  &  daughter  of  my  brother  in  lawe  William  Brande  30s. 
To  Thomasine  Battle  now  wife  of  William  Battle  of  Kettlebarston  £10.  To  John  Parmeseye,  son 
of  my  brother  in  law  Richard  Parmeseye  20s.  To  Maryan  Johnson  my  late  servant  £3.  To 
Anne  Appulton,  now  wife  of  John  Appulton  of  Preston  £6.  To  Marie  Johnson,  daughter  of  John 
Johnson  of  Coulchester  20s.  To  Edward  Johnson  my  wife’s  brother  20s.  To  the  poor  of 
Kettlebarston  and  Monks  Eleigh.  George  Chaplin  of  Monks  Eleigh,  myller,  eldest  son  of  my  brother 
Robert,  to  be  sole  executor,  and  Robert  Reyner  of  Kettlebarston,  supervisor,  of  mv  will.  Witnesses — 
John  Hayward,  John  Bugg.  Proved  at  Bury,  January  25th  1618. 


Arch.  Sudb.  Register  1618,  fo.  195. 


Mill  of  IfUrirari  (Ehaplitt,  1658. 


Oct.  19th  1638.  Richard  Chaplin,  of  Chelsworth.  To  Elizabeth,  my  wife,  all  my  lands 
<fec.  for  life  and  at  her  death  to  my  cozens  William  Green  of  Buxhall  &  Stephen  Chaplin  of  Bildeston 
my  executors,  in  trust  to  sell  the  said  lands,  &  pay  to  Nicholas  my  eldest  son  £20,  to  Stephen  my 
son  £15,  to  William  &  John  my  sons  &  to  Alice  Evered  &  Ann  Scott  my  daughters  £12  each, 
to  Elizabeth  my  youngest  daughter  £20  &  to  Richard  Chaplin  my  youngest  son  the  remainder. 
Witnesses — Christofer  Cooper,  Robert  Mvnns.  Proved  Jan.  6th  163f,  by  Stephen  Chaplin ;  power 
reserved  to  William  Greene. 


Arch.  Sudb.  Register  1638,  fo.  418. 


May  20th  1682.  Stephen  Chaplyn  of  Bildeston,  aged.  I  desire  the  messuage  where  I  dwell 
in  Bildeston,  lately  purchased  of  Robert  Jannings,  deceased,  &  of  William  Wright,  deceased,  and  the 
sixteen  acres  in  Wattisham  known  as  Taberts  to  be  sold  by  my  loving  friends  William  Rivett, 
the  Elder,  of  Bildeston,  Esquire,  Andrew  Brownsmith  of  Lavenham,  Gent,  &  my  son-in-lawe,  Robert 
Clarke  of  Lavenham,  yeoman.  To  Margaret  Clarke  (£10),  Elizabeth  Ward  (£20),  Frances  Chaplyn 
(£50)  &  Martha  Chaplyn  (£50),  my  grandchildren,  daughters  of  my  son  Stephen  Chaplyn,  deceased. 
To  Thomas  Studd  of  Seamer,  yeoman,  my  son-in-law  £15,  &  to  my  grandchildren  Thomas  Studd 
£10,  Stephen  Studd  £15,  Elizabeth  Studd  £5,  Sarah  Studd  £10,  &  Ellen  Studd  £10.  To  Mary 
Hood  (?  Hoo)  one  of  the  children  of  Ellen  Hood  (?  Hoo)  my  daughter,  deceased,  £15  &  to  the 
rest  of  her  children  £10  each.  To  my  grandchild  Stephen  Marchant,  £10  at  21,  but  if  he  dies  before 
reaching  that  age,  then  £5  to  Stephen,  son  of  Thomas  Chaplyn,  my  son,  deceased,  &  £5  to  Martha 
Chaplyn  the  youngest  daughter  of  Thomas  Chaplyn  my  son,  deceased.  To  Mary  daughter  of  my 
sister  Girling  £10.  To  Mary,  daughter  of  William  Tebb  of  Bildeston  £3,  or  to  her  father  if  she  be 
dead.  To  my  kinsman  Thomas  Eagle,  my  sister’s  sonne,  £10.  To  my  kinswoman  the  wife  of 
Henry  Snowden  40s  &  to  my  kinswoman  Margaret,  daughter  of  the  said  Henry  Snowden  £3.  To 
the  seaven  children  of  the  said  Robert  Clarke  my  sonne-in-lawe  £20  each.  To  Sara  Bowie,  my 
grandchild,  wife  of  Robert  Bowie  £10.  To  Stephen  &  Mary  Proctor,  the  children  of  Prudence 
Proctor  my  Kinswoman,  deceased,  £40  each.  To  Mary  Chaplyn,  my  grandchild,  daughter  of  my 
said  son  Thomas,  deceased,  £50.  To  my  grandchild  Stephen  Marchant,  son  of  my  daughter  Ann 
Marchant,  deceased,  a  messuage  in  Bildeston.  To  Stephen  Chaplyn,  my  grandchild,  son  of  Thomas 


84 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES 


Chaplyn  deceased,  the  tenement  called  Lymekill  in  Chelesworth  &  a  messuage  in  Bradfield  St. 
Clare,  which  I  lately  purchased  of  Sir  George  Wynew,  Kt.,  (&  other  legacies).  To  the  poor  of 
Bildeston  40s.  To  Mr.  Sparrow,  minister  of  Bildeston  40s.  Executors,  William  Rivett,  Andrew 
Brownsmith  &  Robert  Clarke.  Witnesses — Joseph  Culpeck,  Henry  Parker,  George  French.  Proved 
at  Bury.  December  28th  1683.  Arch.  Sudb.  Register  1683,  fo.  171. 


plonks  (Eleiglt  Court  ’•Rolls. 

Court  held  May  19th  32  Eliz.  (1590). 
xijd  xijd 

m  ijs  Item  that  Richard  Aggas  &  Stephen  Chaplyn  haue  recd  &  taken  into  there  howses 

at  dyverse  &  sondrye  tymes  certeine  vagrante  &  ydle  psons  beynge  of  ill  fame  &  conversacion 
&  the  haue  retayned  as  guestes  contrarye  to  the  lawe  in  that  case  pvided  &c  And  therefore 
thay  are  an]cied  as  serially  appereth  upon  there  heades  And  thay  are  commanded  yl  from 
henceforthe  thay  shall  no  more  so  doe  upon  peine  to  eithr  of  them  xls. 

P.R.O.  Eccl.  Commrs.  Court  Rolls,  — |i. 


gaill  of  John  Chapltm,  1623. 

May  24th  1623.  John  Chaplin  of  Capell  in  the  Countie  of  Suff,  clarke,  sicke  in  body  but 
of  good  understandinge  &c.  To  be  buried  in  the  chancell  of  the  churchyard  of  Capell.  After  my 
decease  my  executors  to  enter  upon  my  lands  &  tenements  at  Chattisham  &  sell  the  same.  I  give 
to  Susan  my  loveinge  wiffe  £10  a  year  for  life ;  £20  within  six  months  of  my  buriall ;  the  thirde 
part  of  my  brasse,  pewter,  &  lynnen  ;  &  my  two  silver  spoons  &  silver  salt ;  a  combe  of  wheate 
&  of  rye  &  six  bushels  of  malte  ;  also  two  feather  bedds,  two  feather  bolsters,  three  pillows,  two 
coverlettes  &  two  paire  of  blanquetts  one  of  each  of  these  to  be  of  the  best,  then  my  executors 
choosing  two  of  each  kinde,  then  my  wife  to  take  the  residue  of  the  bedding  last  before  bequeathed 
unto  her  ;  to  her  also  a  standing  bedstead  in  the  room  over  the  parlour,  my  best  trundle  bedstead 
&  whatever  else  is  now  in  the  parlour-chamber,  except  lynnen  &  pewter.  I  give  to  my  wife  also 
what  more  she  shall  have  a  desire  unto  provided  the  value  be  not  more  than  20s.  To  my  son 
John  £20  &  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  of  my  property  above  £200.  To  my  son  Henry  my  pte  of 
the  shipp  or  vessel  called  the  Dilligent  wherein  John  Cutting  of  Ipswich  goeth  for  Mr,  &  £20.  To 

my  daughter  Susan  £100.  To  my  son  Abraham  all  my  books.  To  Abraham  my  son  &  Anne  my 

daughter  whatsoever  can  be  made  of  my  goods  unbequeathed,  &  from  the  sale  of  my  house  &  lands 
&  debts  due  to  me  (excepting  £120  which  is  to  be  paid  to  them  after  the  death  of  my  wife,  & 

out  of  which  she  is  to  receive  the  sum  of  £10  aforesaid)  &  less  20s  deducted  by  the  advice  of  John 

Chaplin  &  Thomas  Garrard  for  the  poor  of  Capel.  To  each  of  my  executors  a  ring  of  gold  worth 
10s.  I  appoint  my  brethren  Abraham  Chaplin  of  Monks  Eleigh  &  John  Upcher  of  Dedham  my 
executors.  Proved  May  8,  1624  by  Abraham  Chaplin  &  John  Upcher,  after  the  validity  of  the  will 
had  been  contested  by  testator’s  sons  John  Chaplin  &  Henry  Chaplin. 

P.C.C.  106,  Bvrde. 

The  testator  was  formerly  chaplain  to  John  Appleton  of  Preston,  lord  of  the  manor  of 
Churchford  Hall  in  Capel,  by  whom  he  was  presented  to  the  living  of  Capel  in  1598. 


CHAPLIN  OF  MONKS  ELEIGH. 


85 


CJapltn  of  iHoniis 


Catherine^=Stephen  Chaplin,  of  Boyton  Hall,  Monks  Eleigh,  yeoman=p  Katherine  Offwcod,  widow-,  2d  wife.  Will, 


(mar. 
before 
1546). 


I — 
Theo- 
philus, 
bur. 
lot  ill. 


- 1 - 

Alice, 
mar.  John 
Green,  at 
Chels- 
worth, 
157U. 


and  miller,  died  5  July  1571.  Will,  P.C.C.  35  Holuey, 
dated  4  June  1570,  proved  3  Aug.  1571. 


Consistory  Court  of  Norwich,  28  Jan.  1595-6  ; 
proved  16  Oct.  1596. 


Mary,  mar. 
Richard 
Parmesey, 
at  Monks 
Eleigh, 

1 565. 


— I - - — - 

Elizabeth, 
mar.  John 
Cowper, 
at  Monks 
Eleigh, 
1572. 


- 1 - 

Susanna. 


—“I - ; - 

Katherine, 
mar.  Wm. 
Brande  (or 
Browne),  at 
Monks  El¬ 
eigh,  1576. 


- 1 

Joan, 

bur. 

1566. 


I - 

Stephen. 

Richard. 


— T. - * 

Marian, 
mar.  Thos. 
Smith,  of 
Seiner,  at 
Whatfield, 
1578. 


Mary 
mond,  at 
Bildeston 
1593. 


- - 1 

Os- —  Andrew.  =f  Susan, 
Abbott, 
at  Chels- 


worth, 
1583  ;  d. 
1592. 


I - 

Robert 


J 


Chaplin,  =j=  Rose, 
his 
wife. 


of  Cobbold’s  Mill 
Monks  Eleigh. 
Witness  to  Will 
of  Nicholas 
Chaplin,  1604. 


James  Chaplin, =Marian 
of  Kettlebaston.  John- 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  son,  at 
195  Gibson,  5  Monks 
Feb.  1617,  pr.  25  Eleigh 
Jan.  1618.  Ob. s.p.  1572. 


John  Chaplin, 
eldest  son. 

T 

4- 

Chaplin  of 
Monks  Eleigh 
II. 


Emma,=Nicholas  Chaplin, : 
bur.  at  of  Chelsworth. 

Chels-  Will,  Arch.  Sudb. 

worth  320  Coppinge,  16 

1592.  May  1604  ;  proved 

6  June. 


=Margaret 
Upcher,of 
Dedham, 
at  Bildes¬ 
ton  1593. 


George  Chaplin,1 
of  Monks  Eleigh, 
miller.  Executor 
to  his  uncle 
James  in  1618. 


Isaac, 
bur.  at 
Monks 
Eleigh 
1580. 


Joseph  Chap¬ 
lin,  mention¬ 
ed  in  Will  of 
Abraham 
Chaplin  1637. 


Ann  Oldham, — Richard  Chaplin,  of=Eliza- 


atChelsworth 
1591  ;  buried 
there  1613. 


Chelsworth.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.  418 
Garth,  19  Oct.  1638, 
pr.  6  Jan.  1638.  =p 

4 


beth. 


Zacharie,bapt. 
and  bur.  1585. 


- 1 

Abigail, 

1590. 

- 1 

Rachel, 


bapt. 


- 1 

.  .  ,  wife  of  Thos. 
Chambers,  clerk, 
the  executor 
named  in  her 
father’s  Will. 


bur. 

1588. 

H 

Andrew,  bapt.  at  Bil¬ 
deston  1588.  Probably 
identical  with  Andrew 
Chaplin,  intruding 
Rector  of  Hessett,  co. 
Suff.,  1643—1662. 


George  =f  Mercy,  da.  of  Toby 


Chaplin, 
•of  Chels¬ 
worth. 


Hewett,  of  Chels¬ 
worth,  1631  ;bur.  at 
Monks  Eleigh  1680. 


Rose, 
wife  of 
James 
Howes 
1640. 


Roberta 


l - 

George, 
bapt.  at 
Chels¬ 
worth 
1633, 
bur.  ib. 
1641. 


— I - 

Stephen,  bap. 
atChelsworth 
1637,  P  bur.  at 
Monks  Eleigh 
1661. 


- 1 - 

Elizabeth, 
bapt.  at 
Chelsworth 
1640. 


- 1 

Tryphena, 
bur.  1652 
at  Monks 
Eleigh. 


George,  bapt.=pSarah, 


at  Chelsworth. 
1640,  of  Monks 
Eleigh,  net- 
maker.  Living 
1697  (Monks 
Eleigh  Manor 


Nutt, 

at 

Monks 

Eleigh 

1674. 


- 1 - 

Alice, 

bapt. 

at 

Chels¬ 

worth 

1643. 


Margery 

Pinchback, 

1634. 


Elizabeth,  wife  of 
John  Gostlin,  of 
Monks  Eleigh. 
Will,  P.C.C.  42 
Twisse,  1645. 


Stephen  Chaplin, 
of  Chelsworth. 
Admon.,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  6  Oct. 
1612  to  widow. 


Mary  Reynold, =Thomas  Stil- 
of  Semer  (Arch,  ter,  2d  husb., 
Sudb.  mar.  lie.  at  Chels- 
1591).  worth  1615. 


Emma,bnpt. 
1592 ;  mar. 
Edward 
Eagles  at 
Semer  1618. 


- 1  I  I  - 

Margaret. 


Ann. 

Susan, 
bapt.1603, 
bur.  1604. 


- 1 - 

Nicholas. 


Mary: 

Brownsmith 
at  Nedging’ 
1622,  bur. 
there  1655. 


Susan,— (Probably  mar. 
bapt.  to)  Richard 
at  Neave,of  Itings- 

Monks  hall.  See  Mar. 
Eleigh  Lie.  Suff.  Arch. 
1649.  21  Oct.  1670. 


Mary,  bapt.  at 
Bildeston  1622-3. 

Prudence,  bapt 
at  Bildestonl624. 

Elizabeth,  bapt. 


at 


i  r 

Annis,  bapt 
at  Bildeston 
1631 ;  wife  of 
.  .  .  Marchant. 


Margaret,  bapt. 
at  Bildeston 


:Stephen  Chap — Elizabeth  Cole, 
lin,  of  Bildes-  widow  of  Thos. 


ton,  carpenter. 
Will,  Arch. 
Sudbury  171 
Chambers,  20 
Mav  1682 ;  pr. 
28  Dec.  1683. 


Brandstone,  of 
Bentley,  gent., 

and  of  . 

Fairbrother(lst 
husb.)  in  1673. 
Ob.  1678. 


- ! - 

Ellinor,  bapt. 
at  Bildeston 
1633  ;  inar. 
Thomas  Hoo 
(?  Hood),  of 
Hessett,  at 
Combs  1657. 


- 1 

Sarah,  bapt.  at 
Bildeston  1638  ; 
probably  mar. 
Francis  Rand  of 
Bildeston  at 
Nedging  1659  ; 
bur.  at  Nedging 


Rolls). 

at  Bilde8tonl626. 

1641. 

J 

1664. 

r 

George  Chap-” 

~ r 

Robert  Chap-1 

=(Prob.  mar.  to)1 

=William  Grim- 

i  i 

Sarah,  bapt.  at 

1 

Stephen  =t=  Mar- 

r 

John, 

1 

Richard, 

n 

Thomas,  =j= 

lin,  of  Monks 

lin,  bapt.  at 

Deborah  Beau- 

wood,  2d  husb. 

Monks  Eleigh 

Chaplin, 

garet. 

bapt.  at 

bapt. 

bapt. 

Eleigh, wheel- 

Monks  Eleigh 

mont  at  Monks 

See  Mar.  Lie. 

1678. 

bapt.  at 

Bildeston 

at  Bil- 

at  Bil- 

wright ;  bapt. 

1677.  Admon. 

Eleigh  1710  ; 

Suff.  Archd. 

— 

Bildes- 

1633 ;  • 

deston, 

deston, 

1675at  Monks 

Ipswich  1723. 

of  Ipswich, 

23  Jan.  1726  7. 

Katherine, 

ton  1628 

bur.  at 

1638. 

1636. 

Eleigh. 

widow,  1726. 

bapt.  at  Monks 

Dead  be- 

Nedging 

Dead  in 

Dead  in 

r 

1 - 

~r  ~r 

Eleigh  1681 . 

fore  1682. 
— i - J 

“ 1 

1652. 

1682. 

1 - 

1682. 

- r- H 

Nathaniel  Chaplin,  of  Monks=p 
Eleigh,  yeoman,  bapt.  at 
Monks  Eleigh  1700.  Will, 
Deanery  of  Booking,  3  May 
1768  ;  proved  6  June  1770. 


Mary,  Martha,  Margaret,  the  wife  of  Elizabeth, 

bapt.  at  bapt.  at  ....  Clarke  (prob.  the  wife 

Nedging  Nidging  married  to  Antony  of  ...  . 

1654.  (s)  1652.  Clarke,  at  Semer,  Ward. 

1680). 


Frances,  probably 
mar.JosephProck- 
ter  at  Semer  14 
Dec.  1682. 


Stephen, 
devisee  of 
grand¬ 
father  in 
1682. 


Marv. 


Martha. 


I - 

Robert. 


Sarah,  wife  of 
.  .  .  Roberts. 


- ' - ; - 

Hannah,  wife  of 

.  .  .  Brooks. 


T 


Mary. 


- 1 

Rachel. 


86 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES 


SStill  af  §*nzm  (Ihapljm,  1625. 

In  the  name  of  God,  Amen,  the  2th  day  of  November  1625.  Suzan  Chaplyn,  wedowe,  late 
of  Capell  in  the  co.  of  Suffolke,  deceased,  being  of  pfect  mind  &  memory  did  make  &  declare 
her  last  will  &  testament  nuncupative  in  manner  &  forme  folio weinge.  Imprimis  she  gave  & 
bequeathed  unto  Henry  Chaplyn  her  sonne  x11  of  lawfull  money  being  in  his  owne  possession  &  one 
brasse  pott  &  one  kettle  which  stand  at  Thomas  Carrodf,  further  she  gave  and  bequeathed  unto 
Abraham  Chaplyn  her  sonne  her  silver  salt  &  the  bed  that  is  in  his  owne  possession,  further  she 
gave  &  bequeathed  unto  her  daughter  Suzan  Chaplyn  all  the  lynnen  that  was  in  her  chest,  &  her 
best  stamell  stuffe  petty  coate,  further  she  gave  &  bequeathed  unto  her  daughter  Anne  Chaplyn  all  the 
lynnen  that  was  in  her  chest,  &  her  best  hatt  &  her  twoe  best  ruffes  &  her  best  gowne  &  her 
twoe  best  pettycoates.  All  the  rest  of  her  goodf  &  chattalls  whatsoever  not  formerly  bequeathed 
she  gave  to  John  Chaplyn  her  sonne  whom  she  nominated  &  appointed  her  sole  &  whole  executor 
of  this  her  will  in  the  p’sence  of  Sarah  Garrodf  &  Ann  Wright.  Proved  at  Ipswich,  January 
20th  1625.  Arch.  Suff.  Register  1625,  fo.  344. 


iPrtritjm  from  Iinrlftau  iH.S'.S'.  6071, 

pp.  420.  421. 

....  Chaplaine .=j= 


1 

....  Chaplaine, 
Rector  of  Capell. 

1  1 

Abraham  Chaplaine,  . = 

of  Boyton 

Hall,  Monks 

of  Ketton.  Chaplaine. 

j  Elie. 

j 

- r 

-Wm.  Samuel 

r  _  ^  J 

Judith.=Y Stephenson,  Rector 

i  i 

Capt.  Abigail. — 1 ,  .  .  . 

.  .  .  .=1,  .  .  .  Cor- 

Suaine  Chaplaine. 

1  of  Borough  Oreen  in 

Sam 

Smart, 

boll;  2,  CO;  3, 

of 

Cambs. 

Ward  of 

elk : 

Philip  Jacob, 

Heig- 

_ _ 1 

Lidgate. 

2,  (?). 

B.D.,  Rector  of 

ham. 

.  .  .  Stephenson.  Vicar  of 

Rickingale. 

Ninstow. 

Purchase  of  Joiners  anti  aStincolls  Ifalls,  in  plonks  (Bleiqh. 

October  28th,  22  James  I. 

By  Indenture  dated  Oct.  6,  21  James  I,  made  between  Thomas  Cutler,  Esq,  of  Sproughton 
co.  Suff.  (son  &  heir  of  Robert  Cutler  of  Ipswich,  deceased)  &  Alice  Cutler,  widow  of  the  said 
Robert  Cutler,  of  the  one  part  &  Abraham  Chaplyn  of  Monkf  Elleighe  co.  Suffolk,  yeoman,  of  the 
other  part,  whereby  the  said  Thomas  &  Alice  Cutler  in  consideration  of  the  sum  of  £655  down,  & 
£1,040  to  be  paid  on  or  before  October  24th  1624  by  the  said  Abraham  Chaplin  at  or  in  the  Cornehill 
Crosse  of  the  Towne  of  Ipswich  did  grant  &  sell  to  the  said  Abraham  Chaplan  the  mannors  or 
fearmes  commonly  called  Bowers  &  Wincolls  Halls  with  the  appurtenances  in  Monks  Eleigh  & 
Milding  containing  272  acres,  excepting  the  scite  of  the  mannor  or  capital  messuage  called  Fenns, 
in  the  above  indenture  conveyed  to  John  Hovell  ats  Smith  &  Richard  Hall.  Now  by  these  presents 
the  said  Thomas  &  Alice  Cutler  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  the  said  sum  of  £1,040  &c.,  &c. 

Close  Rolls,  22  James  I.  Part  31,  No.  15. 


CHAPLIN  OF  MONKS  ELEIGH. 


87 


(Ml  of  Jlbnthitm  (Chaplin,  1657. 

May  27th  1637.  Abraham  Chaplin  of  Kedington  als  Ketton,  co.  Suff.  I  give  to  Judith  my 
wife  the  sum  or  annual  rent  of  £46  arising  out  of  the  mannor  of  Winkoll’s  Hall,  but  if  the  said 
mannor  be  insufficient,  then  I  give  to  Judith  my  wife  for  life  the  mannor  or  capital  howse  of 
Winkoll’s  Hall  &c.  &c.  lying  in  Monks  Ely  containing  fowerscore  acres  more  or  less,  lately  purchased 
of  Thomas  Cutler,  Esquier,  as  are  now  in  the  occupation  of  John  Chaplin,  the  Widdowe  Rice,  & 
a  parte  thereof,  called  the  Downe,  in  mortgage  to  William  Ralfe,  &  at  her  death  to  my  heirs  of 
the  body,  &  failing  these  to  Abraham  Chaplin,  clarke,  my  godson,  the  son  of  my  brother  John 
Chaplin,  clarke,  late  of  Capel,  deceased  &  to  John  Chaplin  the  son  of  my  brother  John  late  of 
Kettlebarston,  deceased  &  to  their  heirs  to  be  equally  divided  between  them.  Unto  Samuel 
Chaplin,  son  of  my  brother  Robert,  late  of  Monks  Ely  deceased,  my  mansion  house  at  Swingleton 
Greene  in  Monks  Ely  upon  condition  that  he  pays  to  Thomas  Ralfe  of  Monks  Ely  £214,  for  which 
the  said  house  &  grounds  called  Homefieldes  &  Dulles  thereto  belonging,  together  with  a  parcel 
of  land  called  Downe,  belonging  to  Winkoll’s  Hall,  are  mortgaged,  but  if  this  sum  be  not  paid 
then  I  give  the  said  house  &c  to  John  Chaplin,  my  nephew,  tenant  of  Winkoll’s  Hall,  upon  the 
same  condition.  Unto  Judith  my  wife  all  the  household  stuffe,  plate  &  linnen  that  was  hers  before 
I  married  her,  six  of  my  best  beasts  &  one  mare,  my  best  table,  two  paires  of  sheets,  two  board 
cloths,  a  dozen  of  napkins,  a  seame  of  wheat,  &  a  seame  of  misling.  To  Marie  How,  my  daughter 
in-law,  £100  at  the  age  of  22.  To  my  sister  Susan  Walfenden  £5.  To  Sarah  Chaplin,  daughter 
of  my  brother  Thomas  20s.  Whereas  John  Brett,  my  son-in-law  doth  owe  me  £104  by  bonde, 
I  desire  my  executors  to  take  but  £40.  If  the  rest  falls  short,  I  desire  my  nephews  Abraham  & 
John  to  pay  £100  out  of  my  lands  to  the  legatees.  Unto  Nathaniel  Chaplin  of  Colchester,  my 
nephew,  the  copyhold  tenement  at  Chelsworth  where  Joseph  Chaplin  now  dwelleth.  To  the  poor 
of  Kedington  &  Monks  Ely  20s.  To  George  Sarnon  20s  &  to  each  of  my  servants  10s.  Nephews 
Abraham  &  John  Chaplin  to  be  executors.  Witnesses — Wm.  Whitehead,  John  Marvyn,  Richard 
Smith,  John  Laplove.  Proved  by  Abraham  Chaplin  &  John  Chaplin,  July  7th  1637. 

P.C.C.  110,  Goare. 


(Mill  of  (Sarah  (Chaplin,  1646. 

August  17th  1646.  Sarah  Chaplin,  of  Wittelsford,  co.  Cambs.,  sick  &  infirm.  I  give  unto 
Rachell  Lindsey  daughter  of  John  Lindsey  40s  &  a  paire  of  flax  sheets,  &  to  Jonathan  Lindsey 
his  son  40s.  To  Persie  Hills  daughter  of  Ralph  Hills  40s  &  a  paire  of  sheets  at  the  age  of  5. 
To  Jane  Lindsey  daughter  of  John  Lindsey  40s  &  a  coverlett  at  the  age  of  4,  &  to  Sarah  Hills 
daughter  of  Ralph  Hills  20s  at  the  age  of  4.  To  Nathaniel  Chaplin  son  of  Robert  Chaplin  10s. 
To  Susan  Chaplin  daughter  of  John  Chaplin  husbandman  20s.  To  John  Lindsey,  son  of  John 
Lindsey,  all  my  lands  in  Chelsworth,  co.  Suff.,  &  all  the  rest  of  my  goods,  he  to  be  my  executor. 
Witnesses — Richard  Searle,  Jonathan  Stephens.  Proved  November  8th  1649  by  John  Lindsey. 

P.C.C.  172,  Fairfax. 


88 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


(Ehanccni  fJrocccbings.  (Utaplpn  to.  Clench  anil  ffiife 

Feb.  12th  1650.  The  humble  petition  of  Abraham  Chaplyn  of  Wetheringsett,  co.  Suff.,  Clarke, 
sheweth  that  Henry  Chaplyn,  his  brother,  who  carried  on  the  trade  of  a  grocer  in  Ipswich,  as  also 
the  trade  of  a  marchant  in  adventures  beyonde  the  seas,  so  becoming  indebted  to  several  persons 
&  also  having  money  owing  to  him  from  beyond  the  seas,  died  June  27th  1647,  leaving  a  nuncupative 
will  to  the  effect  following : — He  made  his  brother  Abraham  executor  &  if  he  should  refuse  then 
his  wife  Mary.  He  gave  to  his  wufe  all  his  household  goods,  &  one  quarter  parte  of  the  Hoy 
wherein  John  Peacock  (under  God)  went  master,  &  one  quarter  of  the  stocke  &  furniture  thereunto 
belonging.  He  desired  his  brother  to  purchase  out  of  the  estate  a  messuage  &  lands  of  the  clear 
yearly  value  of  £60  to  the  use  of  Mary  for  life  &  after  to  Abraham  Chaplyn  &  his  heirs.  Until 
such  purchase,  £60  per  annum  to  be  paid  to  Mary,  &  Abraham  to  enter  into  a  bond  of  £500  for 
the  due  performance  of  this  provision.  He  forgave  his  brother  John  Chaplyn,  of  the  City  of 
London,  gent,  the  £50  which  he  (Henry)  had  paid  to  Mr.  Laurence  Whitwell,  &  gave  him  £5.  He 
gave  £20  to  Sarah  Chaplyn,  daughter  of  the  said  John,  &  £20  to  Susan  Fenn,  daughter  of  Marsham 
Fenn,  &  to  his  sister  Anne,  wife  of  Stephen  Boorum  (Boreham)  he  gave  £6  per  annum  on  condition 
that  Stephen  Boorum  settled  his  house  &  orchard  upon  the  said  Anne.  Further  he  gave  40s  to 
the  poor  of  St.  Mary  at  the  Tower,  £5  to  Mr.  Fincham,  curate,  &  20s  to  Mr.  Lawrance,  lecturer 
there.  It  was  supposed  there  were  sufficient  assets  to  satisfy  legacies  &c.  By  reason  of  the 
provisions  of  the  said  will  for  the  purchase  of  a  messuage  to  the  use  of  the  widow  for  life  & 
afterward  to  Abraham  Chaplyn  &  his  heirs,  petitioner  took  upon  himself  the  execution  of  the 
will  &  entered  into  a  bond  of  £500  for  due  performance  of  the  same.  Upon  realising  the  estate 
it  was  found  insufficient  to  pay  the  debts,  which  amounted  to  £4.000  or  more,  &  thereupon  he 
desired  Mary  not  to  take  unjust  advantage  of  the  bond,  to  which  she  consented,  but  having  of 
late  intermarried  with  Edmund  Clench  of  Ipswich,  marchant,  she  now  endeavours  to  inforce  the 
said  bond  by  law.  The  estate  consisted  partly  of  shipping,  which  has  been  lost.  Petitioner’s  brother 
John  endeavoured  to  avoyd  the  will  in  the  Ecclesiastical  Court. 

Mary  Chaplyn  in  her  reply,  dated  April  8th  1651,  says  amongst  other  things  that  she  brought 
a  competent  portion  to  the  said  Henry  Chaplyn  &  lived  his  wife  for  nineteen  years,  &  that  the  said 
bond  has  been  put  in  suit  &  a  verdict  obtained  against  petitioner,  at  the  last  assizes  for  the 
County  of  Suffolk. 

This  litigation,  which  commenced  in  1648,  was  finally  compromised  in  1651  by  Abraham 
Chaplyn  paying  £120  to  Edmund  Clench  “to  purchase  his  peace,”  on  which  Clench  released  all 
claims  to  the  estate,  but  after  Clench’s  death,  his  widow  again  brought  an  action  in  1672  claiming 
specific  performance,  though  apparently  without  success.  At  that  time  the  estate  was  still  insufficient  to 
pay  the  legacies,  although  certain  goods  thought  to  be  lost  at  sea  had  been  since  recovered  and  sold. 

from  Canner  180,  p  0*2. 

....  Chuplaine .=j= 

I - 1 - - - L— I 

1, . Chuplaine,  some-q=.  .  .  2,  Abraham  Chap-  3, . Chuplaine.  -y. . .  II  is  relict  mairiedto  Ward. 

time  Rector  of  Capell  in  S.  laine,  of  Ketton.  | - 1 — | - 1 

Hund.  |  Mary.—Wm.  Swaine.  Samuel.  Judith.=Steevenson. 


.  .  .  Chuplaine,—.  .  .  .—Edmund  Clench,  of  Ipswich,  Abraham  Chuplaine,— Katherine  .  .  .  Chap-=ilassam  Fenne 
a  grocer  in  Ips-  and  of  Behngs.  mar.  his  relict.  Rector  of  Wethering-  Alestove.  laine.  of  Long  Strat- 

wich.  sett.  ton. 


CHAPLIN  OF  MONKS  ELEIGH. 


89 


Mill  of  Jlbrnhnm  (Eliaplin,  1679* 

June  10th  1679.  Abraham  Chaplin  of  Wetheringsett,  co.  Suff.,  clerke.  To  Katharine  my 
wife  all  my  property  (not  settled  upon  my  son  Henry  &  Mary  his  wife  upon  marriage)  lying  in 
Ridgwell  &  Stambourne,  co.  Essex,  for  life,  if  she  will  release  for  dower  &c.  If  she  do  not  release, 
then  to  my  son  Henry  &  his  heirs  upon  the  decease  of  my  said  wife  the  meadow  called  Stambridge 
Meadow  &  three  acres  of  land  called  New  Holland.  All  the  rest  of  the  said  lands  to  Henry  & 
his  heirs,  he  paying  to  Abraham  my  son  £10,  to  John  £27  .  10 . 0,  to  Peter  £52  .  10 . 0,  to  Mary 
my  daughter  £27  .  10 . 0,  to  Elizabeth,  now  the  wife  of  John  Andrews  £27  .  10 . 0,  and  to  Susan 
£27  .  10 . 0,  within  two  years  of  my  wife’s  death,  all  payments  to  be  made  at  or  in  the  south  porch 
of  Wetheringsett  Church,  &  in  default  of  payment,  the  legatees  to  enter  upon  the  lands.  To  John 
my  son,  my  messuage  in  Wetheringsett  which  I  purchased  of  Mr.  Anthony  Blomfield,  now  in  the 
occupation  of  William  Berry  &c.  To  Peter  the  messuage  &c.  in  Mickfield  in  the  occupation  of  William 
Sowgate,  also  the  patronage  &  advowson  of  the  Rectory  of  Mickfield.  My  library  to  be  divided 
between  Abraham  &  Peter,  &  to  the  latter  £50  out  of  my  personal  estate.  My  linnen  to  be  valued 
&  mv  wife  Katherine  to  choose  £5  worth.  To  her  also  £10  out  of  my  personal  estate  &  £40  worth 
of  my  goods  &  chattels  after  valuation,  which  after  her  death  are  to  be  divided  between  my  sons 
Henry,  John  &  Peter.  To  Mary  £200  out  of  my  personal  estate  &  £3  for  her  present  maintenance, 
&  to  Susan  the  same.  To  my  son-in-law,  William  Wright  &  Katherine  his  wife,  my  daughter,  20s 
each  to  buy  a  ring.  Whereas  the  said  William  Wright  has  entered  into  a  bond  to  pay  me  £50 
in  case  Katherine  die  without  issue;  if  it  be  paid,  it  is  to  be  divided  between  my  three  daughters. 
To  my  grandchildren  Abraham,  Henry  &  Mary,  the  children  of  Henry  20s  each,  &  to  Robert, 
John,  James,  Katherine,  &  Elizabeth,  the  children  of  my  daughter  Andrews  20s  each,  Wetheringsett 
Church  to  be  the  place  of  payment.  To  the  minister  preaching  my  funeral  sermon  20s.  To  such 
of  the  poor  of  Wetheringsett  as  come  to  Church  £3.  To  each  of  my  servants  5s.  My  wife 
Katherine  &  Henry  Chaplin,  my  son,  to  be  executors.  Witnesses — B.  Gibson,  Edmund  Seaborne, 
Guy  Hayle.  Proved  by  Katherine  Chaplin  &  Henry  Chaplin,  August  8th  1679. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Register  1679,  fo.  308. 

The  Reverend  Abraham  Chaplin  was  probably  of  St.  Catherine  College,  Cambridge,  where  two 
of  his  sons,  Abraham  and  Peter,  took  their  degrees  later.  We  first  hear  of  him  in  1640,  when  he 
appears  to  have  been  Master  of  the  English  side  at  Queen  Elizabeth’s  Grammar  School,  Dedham, 
co.  Essex  (Victoria  History,  Essex).  He  succeeded  William  Withers,  the  ejected  Rector  of 
Wetheringsett,  somewhere  about  1644,  by  order  of  the  Committee  for  Plundered  Ministers,  but  was 
not  formally  instituted  until  the  death  of  Withers  in  1647. 

Calendar  of  the  House  of  Lords  MSS.  May  4,  1647. — “  Application  for  an  order  for  Dr.  Heath 
to  institute  and  induct  Abraham  Chaplyn  to  the  Rectory  of  Wetheringsett-cum- 
Brockford,  Co.  Suff.” 

Annexed. — “  1  Certificate  from  the  Assembly  of  Divines  that  Chaplyn  has  been  approved 
for  the  Cure.” 

Journal  of  the  House  of  Lords,  May  4,  1647. — “  Ordered  that  Dr.  Heath  shall  give  institution 
&  induction  to  Abraham  Chaplyn,  clerk,  to  the  Rectory  &  Church  of  Wetheringsett- 
cum-Brockford  in  the  co.  of  Suffolke,  voide  by  the  Death  of  William  Withers,  late 
Incumbent ;  he  producing  his  Presentation  under  the  hand  &  seal  of  Sir  Wm.  Soames, 
Patron  ;  he  taking  the  Covenant ;  &  this  to  be  with  a  Salvo  Jure  Cujuscunque.” 

N 


90 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Under  the  Commonwealth  he  became  one  of  the  Ministers  of  the  9th  Division  of  the  County 
of  Suffolk,  Hundred  of  Hartismere  &  retained  the  Rectory  of  Wetheringsett  till  his  death  in  1679. 

In  1655  he  purchased  a  farm  known  as  Payns,  at  Ridgwell,  co.  Essex,  of  William  Wade 
&  Ann  his  wife,  which  remained  in  the  hands  of  his  descendants  until  within  the  last  twenty-five 
years.  An  interesting  inventory  of  his  goods  as  valued  for  probate  purposes  was  printed  in  the 
issue  of  East  Anglian  Notes  and  Queries  for  March,  1903. 


Close  foils,  2  ©forge  E,  fart  7,  Jjto.  12. 

August  1st  1715. 

Indenture  made  between  Peter  Chaplaine  of  Higham,  co.  Suff.,  Clerk,  one  of  the  sons 
of  Abraham  Chaplaine,  late  of  Wetheringsett  in  the  said  co.,  clerk,  deceased,  of  the  one 
part,  &  John  Salmon  of  Stonham  Aspell  in  the  said  co.,  clerk,  of  the  other  part,  whereby  the  said 
Peter  Chaplaine  in  consideration  of  the  sum  of  £180  paid  to  him  by  John  Salmon  conveys  the  advowson, 
right  of  patronage,  presentation  and  free  disposition  of  and  to  the  Parish  Church  of  Mickfield  in  the 
said  co.,  with  all  the  presentations  until  the  presentation  of  Abraham  Chaplaine  the  present  incumbent, 
and  also  a  meadow  of  2  acres  near  the  said  Church,  a  pasture  called  Sancroft  containing  four 
acres  and  lying  within  the  land  formerly  of  Nicholas  Garnish,  Esq.,  and  4  acres  of  pasture  adjoining 
the  house  of  Richard  Shepherd  of  Mickfield. 


Mill  of  f  braham  Chaplin,  1715. 

June  23rd  1715.  Abraham  Chaplin  of  Mickfield,  co.  Suffolk,  clerk.  To  my  wife  Martha  for 
life  my  messuage  lying  in  Wetheringsett  with  all  lands  thereto  belonging,  both  free  &  copyhold, 
with  remainder  after  her  decease  to  my  nephew  Henry  Chaplin  of  Ridgwell,  co.  Essex  &  his  heirs, 
upon  condition  that  he  pay  the  following : — To  John  Chaplin  my  brother  £10,  to  Peter  Chaplin 
my  brother  £5,  to  Mary  Chaplin  my  sister-in-law,  wife  of  my  brother  Henry  deceased  £15,  to 
Susannah  Chaplin  daughter  of  my  said  sister-in-law  £15,  to  Elizabeth  Andrews  my  sister  £15, 
&  to  Catherine  &  Elizabeth  Andrews,  daughters  of  my  said  sister  Elizabeth,  £15  each.  If  my 
nephew  Henry  Chaplin  neglect  to  pay  the  said  legacies,  I  authorise  my  brother  John  Chaplin  to 
enter  upon  my  said  messuage  &  lands  &  to  pay  the  same.  Out  of  my  personal  estate  I  give  to 
Mary  Chaplin  aforesaid  my  sister-in-law  £5,  to  Susannah  Chaplin  &  Sarah  Ames  her  daughters 
£5  each,  to  my  sister  Mary  Hudson  £5,  to  Elizabeth  Andrews  my  sister  £5,  to  Catherine  & 
Elizabeth  her  daughters  £5  each,  to  my  brother  John  Chaplin  £10,  &  to  the  poor  of  Mickfield 
£5.  My  wife  Martha  residuary  legatee.  My  wife  Martha  &  my  brother  John,  executors. 
Witnesses: — Margaret  Sayer,  Mary  Hammant,  John  Salmon.  Proved  at  Mickfield,  Nov.  21st  1715 
by  Martha  Chaplin.  Consistory  Court  of  Norwich,  1715. 


ffitill  of  Jletcr  (Hhaplin,  1719. 

December  8th  1719.  Peter  Chaplin  of  Higham,  co.  Suff.  To  my  wife  Elizabeth,  my  messuage 
farm  in  Hundon  &  Kedington  als  Ketton,  now  occupied  by  Roger  Wesley,  except  the  lands  I 


CHAPLIN  OF  MONKS  ELEIGH. 


91 


purchased  of  Philip  Brown  of  Redriff,  mealman,  called  Rowning’s  Land.  To  her  also  all  my  lands 
at  Miclcficld  in  the  occupation  of  Widow  Weston.  To  Deborah  my  daughter,  my  freehold  land 
in  Wetheringsett,  in  the  occupation  of  Benjamin  Alderton,  also  Rownings  Land  aforesaid,  &  the 
Mickfield,  Hundon,  &  Ketton  Lands  after  the  death  of  her  mother.  To  the  poor  of  Higham  £3. 
To  the  Churchwardens  of  Higham  £10,  the  interest  thereon  to  be  paid  to  some  schoolmaster  or 
schooldame  to  learn  two  poor  children  to  read.  Remainder  equally  between  my  wife  &  daughter. 
My  wife  Elizabeth  to  be  sole  executrix,  my  honoured  &  loving  uncles  Robert  Clark  &  Mr. 
Edward  Clark  to  counsel  &  assist  her  &c.  Witnesses — J.  Thorowgood,  John  Mason,  Elizabeth 
Thorowgood.  Proved  at  Ipswich,  June  21st  1722.  Arch.  Suffolk,  Reg.  1722,  fo.  105. 


SSili  of  Wjnxxv  (Elvaplin,  172$. 

July  31st  1728.  Henry  Chaplin  of  Ashen  aliis  Esse,  co.  Essex,  Yeoman.  To  Elizabeth  my 
loving  wife  all  that  my  freehold  tenement  which  John  Cansfield  now  dwelleth  in  containing  four 
rooms,  lying  &  being  in  Redgwell  in  the  co.  of  Essex,  for  life,  according  to  her  marriage  articles, 
&  allso  all  her  cloths  &  goods  that  were  hers  before  marriage,  also  £3  per  annum  payable  quarterly 
&  £5  ten  days  after  my  decease.  To  Hannah  my  eldest  daughter  £50.  To  Abraham  my  son  £20 
to  be  paid  by  my  son  John  within  three  months  of  the  death  of  my  wife  Elizabeth.  To  my  three 
youngest  daughters,  Martha,  Mary  &  Margrett  £40  each  at  21,  &  to  Martha  &  Mary  40s  each 
yearly  until  21.  To  Elizabeth  Cotton  &  Mary  Cotton  my  wife’s  two  daughters  £5  each  at  21. 
To  my  youngest  daughter  Margrett  £5  per  annum  out  of  my  freehold  lands  until  12,  afterwards 
but  40s  until  of  age.  To  my  eldest  son  John  all  other  freehold  &  copyhold  lands  &  tenements, 
on  condition  that  he  pays  my  debts  &c.  My  brother,  Samuel  Bridge  &  my  son  John,  executors. 
Witnesses — An  Wolfe,  John  Norfolk,  George  Lowe.  Proved  Dec  5th  1728  by  John  Chaplin,  with 
power  reserved  to  Samuel  Bridge.  Arch.  Middlesex  (Essex  and  Herts),  242,  Grayling. 


Hill  of  John  Chaplin,  1767. 

February  13th  1767.  John  Chaplin  of  Birdbrook,  co.  Essex,  Yeoman.  I  give  to  Katherine 
my  wellbeloved  wife  £5,  &  household  goods  to  the  value  of  £10  &  I  confirm  my  marriage 

settlement.  To  my  son  Joseph  &  his  heirs  my  freehold  lands  in  Ridgwell  known  as  Stambridge 

Crofts,  Stambridge  Meadow,  &  the  Grove,  &  one  piece  in  Oldfield.  Also  one  piece  in  Ridgwell 
Common  called  the  Long  rood,  also  one  piece  in  the  same  called  Acre  piece,  except  so  much  as 
is  before  conveyed  to  my  son  Henry,  whereon  stand  a  windmill,  containing  together  by  estimation 
19|  acres  more  or  less.  To  Katherine  Dodd  my  daughter  £100,  on  which  she  is  to  receive  £4 
per  annum  so  long  as  her  husband  lives ;  also  to  my  daughter,  the  wife  of  William  Dodd  in  the 
Parish  of  Birdbrook,  a  freehold  cottage  or  doble  tenement  in  Stoke-by-Clare,  &c:  To  my  two  sons 
Henry  &  Richard  £40  each.  To  my  two  sons  Abraham  &  William  £240  each,  William  to  have 
his  when  of  age,  or  when  he  shall  go  into  business.  The  remainder  to  be  divided  equally  among 

my  children,  except  £20  to  William,  &  all  those  my  sons  that  have  had  money  upon  note  do 

punctually  pay  the  same  into  the  hands  of  my  executors.  I  appoint  my  sons  Richard  &  Abraham 
my  executors.  Witnesses — John  Bunting,  William  Tarburd,  Susannah  H.  Bentley.  Proved  April  4th 
1767.  Commissary  Court  of  London  (Essex  and  Herts),  528  Boultwood. 

N3 


Cljapltn  of  iHonfes  €ltig§ 


Katherine,  1st  wife  (mar.  =f  Stephen  Chaplin,  of  Boyton  Hall,  Monks  Eleigh,  co.  Snffolk,==Katherinc  Offwood, 
before  1546).  I  yeoman  and  miller,  died  5  July  1571.  Will,  P.C.C.  35  Holney.  widow,  2d  wife. 

I  Dated  4  June  1570;  proved  3  Aug.  1571. 

I - 1  _ 

Maud,  his  wife,  bur. — John  Chaplin,  of  Boyton  Hall,  Monks  Eleigh,  eldest  son,  held  messuages  called  Kemps,  etc. — Katherine  Bouche,  2d 
Monks  Eleigh,  June  in  Monks  Eleigh.  Living  1590,  probably  dead  before  1600.  (Monks  Eleigh  Court  Rolls,  wife.  Mar.  at  Monks 
1575.  P.R.O.)  Eleigh  24  Jan.  1575/6. 


I - 

Thomas  Chap-=F 
lin,  perhaps  a 
clergyman  (see 
Will  of  Nicholas 
Chaplin,  1604). 


T 


Robert  Chaplin,  probably=f  Marj1  San — Joshua 


of  Boyton  Hall,  Monks 
Eleigh.  Admon.  P.C.C.  to 
widow,  12  Aug.  1596. 


der,~  at 
Monks 
Eleigh, 
^1585. 

See  Chaplin  of  Chblsworth. 


Ward, 

husb. 


2d 


Sarah  Chaplin,  died  at  Whittlesford,  co.  Cambs.  Will,  P.C.C. 
172,  Fairfax,  17  Aug.  1646 ;  proved  8  Nov.  1649. 


=  Mary. 


John  Chaplin,' 
of  Kedington 
and  Kettle- 
barston,  died 
1616. 


See  Chaplin,  of 
Monks  Eleigh.  III. 


— 1  I - 

Nicholas, 
bur.  Monks 
Eleigh, 

1575. 


Elizabeth, 
bur.  Monks 
Eleigh, 
1575. 


Stephen,  inherited  Par¬ 
kers  in  Monks  Eleigh 
from  his  father.  Men¬ 
tioned  in  Will  of  James 
Chaplin,  1617.  Probably 
father  of  Stephen  Chaplin 
of  Edwardstone. 

See  Chaplin,  of  East 
Bergholt. 


Judith,  da.  of  Robert — Abraham  Chaplin,  of  Monks  Eleigh^=Mary,  1st 


Copinger,  of  Laven- 
ham,  and  widow  of 
John  How,  of  Mel- 
ford.  Bur.  at  Ked¬ 
ington,  1658. 


and  Kedington,  co.  Suff.  Will  P.C.C. 
110  Goare,  27  Mav  1637 ;  proved 
7  July  1637. 


wife,  bur. 
at  Keding¬ 
ton,  1629. 


Sarah,  mar.  to  John  Brett,  at  Nedging, 
1606 ;  dead  by  1637,  s.p. 


- 1 - 

Susan,  wife  of 
the  Rev.  James 
Wolphenden, 
Rector  of  Little 
Wheluetham, 
co.  Suff. 


1 


John  Chaplin,  M.A.,  Rector=f=Susan  Upcher, 


of  Capel,  co.  Sufi ,  1599- 
1623.  Inherited  Kemps  in 
Monks  Eleigh.  Will  P.C.C. 
106  Byrde,  24  May  1623; 
proved  8  May  1624. 


of  Dedham,  co. 
Essex,  at  Box- 
ford,  Suff.  1594. 
Will  Arch.  Suff. 
2  Nov.  1625 ;  pr. 
20  Jan. 1625. 


Sarah,  da.  of=p  John  Chap 
William  Hollo¬ 
way  and  widow 
of  Daniel  Wood- 
gate,  of  East 
Bergholt,  mar. 
at  Little  Wen- 
ham,  1626. 


Sarah  Chaplin. 


John  Chaplin,  execu¬ 
tor  to  brother  Abra¬ 
ham,  1715.  Bapt. 
Wetheringsett,  1646. 
probably  a  bachelor. 


I - 1 - 1 - 

Henry  Chaplin,  of^Mary,  da.  Susan,  the 
lin,  of  East  Ipswich, merchant  of  Oliver  wife  of 
Bergholt,  and  grocer,  bapt.  Hovell,  of  Marsham 
yeoman,  Capel,  1601 ;  died  Bury  St.  Fenne,  of 
“  of  Lon-  1647,  without  Edmund’s  ;  Long 
don,  gent.”  issue.  Admon.  to  she  remar.  Stratton 
in  1647.  brothers  Abraham  Edmund  (Tanner). 
(executor),  and  Clench,  of 
John,  P.C.C.  251  Ipswich, 

Fines,  9  Dec.  1647.  grocer. 

!- r 


- 1 - 

Abraham  Chaplin,  M.  A.  =5=  Katherine 


(of  Cambridge?), bapt. 
Capel,  1609.  Rector  of 
Wetheringsett,  co. 
Suff.  1647.  Will  Arch. 
Sudb.  308  Brydon,  10 
June  1679 ;  proved  8 
Aug.  1679.  M.I.  at 
Wetheringsett. 


Susannah,  bapt. 
Wetheringsett, 
1650.  Probably 
bur.  at  Ridg- 
well,  1681. 


Mary,  2d.  wife  of 
Nathaniel  Hud¬ 
son  Rector  of 
Holton,  Suff.,  mar. 
at  Mickfield,  1684. 


Peter,  bapt. 
Wethering¬ 
sett,  1648. 


I - 

Henry^=Mary 
Chaplin, 
of  Payns, 
Ridgwell, 
co.  Essex. 

Born  be¬ 
fore  1644; 
bur.  Ridg¬ 
well,  1704. 


I - 

Abra¬ 

ham, 

bapt. 

Ridg¬ 

well, 

1671, 

bur. 

1684. 


- 1 - — - 

Abraham  Chaplin,  of — Martha 
Cath.  Coll.  Camb.,M.A.  .  .  ., 

(1671),  bapt.  Wether-  bur.  at 
ingsett,  1644.  Rector  Mick- 
of  Mickfield,  co.  Suff.,  field, 
1674-1715.  Will,  Con-  1720. 
sist.  Norwich,  23  June 
1715  ;  proved  21  Nov. 

1715.  Ob.  s.p.  M.I. 
at  Mickfield. 


Elizabeth,  the  wife  of 
John  Andrews,  of  Bac- 
ton,  Suff.,  gent.;  mar.  at 
Haughley,  1662  ( see 
p.  35).  4, 

T 


Alestone 
(Tanner), 
died  1890. 
M.I.  at 
Wethering¬ 
sett. 


- n— 1 

Sarah,  bapt.  1603, 
bur.  1616. 

Mary,  bapt.  1605, 
bur.  1616. 

Anna,  the  wife  of 
Stephen  Bore- 
ham,  bapt.  1607. 


Anne,  bapt. 
Wethering¬ 
sett,  1652. 


Katherine,  the 
wife  of  William 
Wright. 


Judith,  da.  of=Peter  Chaplin,  of  Cath.  Coll.,  Camb., ^Elizabeth  Clarke,  2d  wife, 
John  Mynns,  of 
Chelsworth. 

Admon.  to  Peter 
Chaplin,  husb., 
at  Ipswich,  27 
July  1691. 


M.A.  1680.  Master  at  Dedham 
Grammar  School,  1685/6.  Rector  of 
Higham.  co.  Suff.  Bapt.  Wethering¬ 
sett,  1655.  Will  Arch.  Suff.,  8  Dec. 
1719  ;  proved  31  June  1722. 


who  survived  him. 
[Niece of  Edward  Clarke, 
of  Stratford,  gent.  Will 
P.C.C.  179,  Plymouth, 
1729.] 


r 


Deborah,  da.  and  heiress,  the  wife  of  Francis  Folkard,  died 
21  Aug.  1779,  aged  81  ;  bur.  at  Clopton,  co.  Suff. 


- ! - II - ; - 1 - ; - 

Sarah  — Henry  Chaplin,  of — Margaret  Hills,  at  Mary,  bapt  Ridgwell,  John,  Sarah, 

(Bridge  Ashen,  co.  Essex,  Ridgwell,  1709, 2d  1675,  the  wife  of  bapt.  bapt. 

?),bur.  bapt.  Ridgwell,  1673.  wife,  and  3d,  Eliza-  Richard  Man,  ah.  and 

Ridg-  Will  Arch.  Middlesex  bethOotton, widow,  Piper,  of  Ridgwi 
well,  (Essex  and  Herts),  da.  of  J110.  Under-  Hall.  Her  da.  Mary  1678.  wife  of 

1707,  242  Grayling, 31  July  wood,  of  Ridgwell,  mar.  William  Chap- 

lst  1728;  pr.  5  Dec.  1728.  1727;  bnr.  there  lin,  of  Bury  (see 

wife.  |  1757.  pedigree,  p.  114). 


1 

John, 

1 

Sarah, 

1 

Katherine, 

1 

Hannah  (? 

1 

Martha, 

bapt. 

bapt. 

bapt.  Ridg- 

Susannah), 

bapt. 

and 

Ridgwell 

well,  1683. 

bapt.  Ridg- 

Ridg- 

bur.. 

1680,  the 

Probably 

well,  1686, 

well, 

1678. 

wife  of 

dead  before 

living  1715. 

1689, 

1715. 

bur. 

Ames. 

1690. 

John  Chaplin,  of  Birdbrook,  co.  Essex,  bur.=F=Catherine  Polley,  mar.  Hannah.  Abraham. 


T 


T 


at  Ridgwell,  1767,  aged  66.  Will  Comm. 
Ct.,  London  (Essex and  Herts),  528  Boult- 
wood,  13  Feb.  1767  ;  proved  4  April  1767. 


before  1731,  bur.  Ridg¬ 
well,  1790,  aged  85. 


Martha,  under  21  in  Mary,  Margrett, 
1738  (perhaps  the  under  under  12  in 
wife  of  John  Bare-  21  in  1738. 
ham,  of  Stoke  by  1738. 

Clare). 


1 


John  Chaplin,  of  Ridgwell=Elizabeth,  his  Joseph  Chaplin,  of  Little  Meadow  End,  Tilbury ,=Mary,  da.  of  John  Catherine.the 
Not  mentioned  in  his  father’s  wife,  bur.  Ridg-  bur.  Ridgwell,  1804,  aged  69.  Will  Arch.  French,  of  Steeple  wife  of  Wil- 

will.  Bur.  Ridgwell,  1798,  well,  1790,  aged  Midx.  (Essex  and  Herts),  369  Rogers,  10  Jan.  Bumpstead,  co.  liam  Dodd,  of 

aged  68.  No  issue.  59.  1801 ;  proved  27  Feb.  1804.  Ob.  s.p.  legit.  Essex, bur.  Ridgwell,  Birdbrook. 

1828,  aged  83. 


Henry  Chaplin,  of 
Harlow,  co.  Essex. 

T 

Chaplin  of  Harlow. 


- 1 - 

Richard  Chaplin,  of  the 
Three  Chimnies,  Ridg¬ 
well.  =j= 

Chaplin  of  Ridgwell. 


- 1 - 

Abraham  Chaplin,  of  Great 
Meadow  End,  Tilbury-next- 
Clare.  =f= 

Chaplin  of  Fulbournk. 


1 


William  Chaplin, of  Cheshunt,=r=Catherine,  his  wife,  bur. 
co.  Herts,  bur.  1824,  aged  76.  j  Cheshunt,  1823,  aged  76. 


r 


T 


John.  Joseph.  Henry. 


1“ - 1 

Catherine.  Susannah 


CHAPLIN  OF  MONKS  E LEIGH. 


93 


Will  of  Joseph  (tthaplin,  1801 

January  10th  1801.  Joseph  Chaplin  of  Tilbury,  co.  Essex,  farmer.  To  my  wife  Mary,  the 
remainder  of  the  lease  of  my  farm  at  Tilbury,  &  all  the  remaining  stock  &c.,  she  to  pay  £400  to 
Mary  Chaplin  of  the  farm  called  the  three  Chimnies  in  Ridgwell.  All  my  freehold  lands  in  Ridgwell 
to  William  Chaplin  of  Cheshunt,  co.  Herts,  yeoman,  &  his  heirs,  subject  to  the  payment  of  £50 
each  to  John,  Joseph,  Henry,  Catherine  &  Susannah  Chaplin,  my  nephews  &  neices,  the  sons  & 
daughters  of  William  Chaplin.  To  my  nephew  Joseph  Chaplin,  the  youngest  son  of  Mary  Chaplin 
of  Ridgwell  Causeway,  widow,  £100.  To  my  neices  Ann  &  Elizabeth  Chaplin,  daughters  of  Henry 
Chaplin,  deceased  £50  each  out  of  my  cash,  &  to  William  Dodd  &  Mary  Dodd  of  Birdbrook  £50 
each  out  of  my  cash.  Executors,  my  brother  William  Chaplin  &  my  nephew  John  Chaplin,  to  the 
latter  £10.  Witnesses — John  Cook,  Oliver  Turner,  James  Rumball.  Proved  February  27th  1804. 

Arch.  Middlesex  (Essex  and  Herts)  339,  Rogers. 


iftoiunnental 

Wetheringsett  Church. 

On  a  ledger  stone  of  grey  shell-marble, 
now  lying  at  the  foot  of  the  font,  but  formerly 
within  the  altar-rails,  having  been  removed 
to  make  room  for  a  new  step. 

Hie  iacet 

Abrahamus  Chaplin 
A.M.  &  Ann.  36  Hujus 
Ecclae  Rector 


Obiit  Jul. 

)  18 

An.  Dni. 

[  1679 

Aetat. 

)  70 

Etiam  Catherina  Uxor 
vicesimo  secundo  Januarii 
Anno  aetatis  lxxiii 
Salutis  mdcxc 
defuncta. 


Inscriptions. 

Mickfield  Church. 

On  a  slate  tomb,  in  churchyard,  south 
side  : — 

Abrahamus  Chaplin  A.M. 

Hujus  Ecclesiae  per  annos 
42  Rector  Salutis 
Animam  Studiosissimus 
&  Christianae  Pietatis 
Exemplar  Obijt  18  Octobris 
A.D.  1715.  Annos  Natus,  71. 

Davy  MSS.,  B.M.,  Addl.  MS.  19,085. 


Independent  Chapel,  Fulbourne,  Cambs. 

Upon  the  east  wall :  white  marble  tablet : — 

To  the  Memory  of 
John  Chaplin,  Gent.: 
his  afflicted  widow  and  bereaved  family 
erect  this  tablet. 

Natus  mdcclxxii.  Obit,  mdcccxxxiii.  a:tat.  lxi. 
His  mortal  remains  are  deposited 
in  the  adjoining  burial  ground 
Amici  Resurget ! 


94 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Cijapltn  of  jfttUiournr. 


Abraham  Chaplin,  of  Great  Meadow  End,  Tilbury -juxta=^=  Mary,  da.  of  William  Merrington,  of  the  Causeway, 


Clare,  born  c.  1742 ;  died  1785  ;  bur.  at  Ridgwell. 
Admon.  Commissary  Court  of  London  (Essex  and  Herts.) 
13  June  1785,  to  Mary  Chaplin,  widow. 


Abraham 
Chaplin, 
bornl770 ; 
died  1847, 
unmar. 
Bur.  at 
Ridgwell. 


Mary,  born 
1769 ;  died 
1818.  The 
wife  of  Tho¬ 
mas  Bird  of 
Ridgwell 
Hall. 


Peter  Chaplin  of= 
The  Causeway, 
Ridgwell, born  1778; 
died  1809,  s.p.  Will, 
Com.  Ct.,  London 
(Essex  and  Herts) 
261  Jackson. 


=Mary  Merrington, 
of  Butsbury,  co. 
Essex.  She  mar. 
secondly,  George 
Rolph  of  Billeri- 
cay ,  and  died  1852. 


Ridgwell,  and  Mary  (Whiskin),  his  wife:  she  died 
22  May  1807,  aged  60  years.  Her  aunt,  Margaret 
Whiskin,  mar.  Thomas  Hancock,  of  Fulbourne,  co. 
Cambs. 


William, 
born  1773; 
died  1791. 


Martha,  born 
1780.  The  wife 
of  Porter  Ham¬ 
mond  ofCogges- 
hall  &  Feering, 
co.  Essex. 


- 1 

Elizabeth,  born  1783,  the 
wife  of  Rev.  Mark  Robinson, 
of  Moon  Hall,  Haverhill, 
Minister  of  the  Independent 
Chapel  at  Steeple  Bumpstead, 
co.  Essex  ;  died  1852. 


John  Chaplin  of  Fulbourne, 
co.  Cambs.,  born  1772 ;  de¬ 
visee  of  his  cousin,  Thomas 
Hancock  of  Fulbourne,  in 
1811 ;  died  1833.  M.I.  Inde¬ 
pendent  Chapel,  Fulbourne. 
Bur.  in  the  Family  Burial 
Ground  there. 


~r 


=Ann,  da.  of 
Joseph  Cock,  of 
Bowles,  Ridg¬ 
well,  and  Ann 
(French),  his 
wife ;  mar.  at 
Ridgwell,  1806. 
She  died  1838, 
aged  57. 


Richard  Chaplin, =pNancy 


bornl775;  of  Hal¬ 
stead,  co.  Essex, 
coal  merchant. 


Collis. 


Daniel  Chaplin,  of  Ha-- 
verhill,  corn  merchant, 
born  1777  ;  died  1836, 
leaving  issue. 

1 


Richard  Chaplin  of  Wethers-  Henry, 

field,  straw  plait  manufac-  — 

turer.  Benjamin. 


-Ann  Ham¬ 
mond,  of 
Cogges- 
hall,  sister 
to  Porter 
Ham¬ 
mond,  see 
above. 


Joseph  Chap¬ 
lin,  of  The 
Causeway  & 
Moat  Farms, 
Ridgwell; 
born  1785 
(posthumous); 
died  1864. 


“TT 


1 — I — r 


:  Rebec¬ 
ca  Siz¬ 
er  of 
Haver¬ 
hill. 


Ann,  born  1808; 

Martha, 

Eliza¬ 

Mary,  born 

Emily  Han¬ 

William  Merrington 

Ellen, 

Lydia, b. 1838; 

Thomas  Chaplin, 
of  Galleywood, 

wife  of  John 

born 

beth, 

1810;  wife 

nah,  born 

Chaplin,  of  Town 

b.1833; 

d.  1853. 

Bradford  Paul, 

1811  ; 

born 

of  Charles 

1819  ;  wife 

House  Farm,  Ridg¬ 

d.1902. 

— 

near  Chelmsford; 

of  Bottisham 

died 

1813; 

Wedd  Will- 

of  George 

well,  born  1821 ;  was 

— 

Rebecca,  b. 

born  1830;  living 

Place,  co. 

1893. 

died 

sher  of 

Livett,  Al¬ 

twice  married  and 

John, 

1826. 

1910;  mar.  Mary 

Cambs. ;  died 
1886. 

1877. 

Petches, 
Finching- 
field ;  died 
1843. 

derman  of 
Cambridge; 
died  1894. 

died  1908,  leaving 
issue. 

b.1824; 

d.1905. 

Joseph,  b. 
1828 ;  living 
1910;noissue. 

Ann  Mears,  and 
has  issue. 

John  Hancock  Chaplin, 
born  1807 ;  died  1871, 
unmarried. 


Abraham  Thomas  Chaplin, : 
of  Fulbourne,  born  1815 ; 
died  1866. 


i - 1 - ; - 1 - 

John  Blanche  Elizabeth,  born  1856;  Gertrude 

Thomas,  the  wife  of  George  Chaplin  Livett,  Martha, 

born  M.A.,  LL.D.,  of  Soham,  Cambs.,  born 

1851;  Solicitor,  her  cousin ;  died  1901,  1859. 

died  leaving  issue  one  son,  Ronald 

1858.  George  Chaplin  Livett,  of  the 

Middle  Temple,  Barrister-at-Law. 


:Martha  Elizabeth,  da.  of  Thomas  Gayfer, 
of  Clare,  co.  Sufi.,  who  died  1895,  aged  69. 


Thomas  Hancock  Arnold  Chaplin,  M.D., 
of  St.  John’s  Coll.,  Camb.,  born  1864;  mar. 
1st,  Joan  Slatter,  widow  of  .  .  .  Seton  Smith, 
and  2nd  (1909),  Margaret  Douie,  da.  of 
J.  II.  Robertson,  M.D.,  J.P.,  of  Singapore 
and  Edinburgh,  and  widow  of  William 
Dougal,  of  the  Chartered  Bank  of  India. 


Joseph  Chap¬ 
lin,  of  Lud- 
lows,  Ful¬ 
bourne,  bom 
1817;  died 
1905.  M.I. 
Independent 
Chapel,  Ful¬ 
bourne. 


:Esther,  da. 
of  William 
Foster,  of 
Hauxt.on 
Mill,  co. 
Cambs., 
who  died 
1903,  aged 
79. 


r 


Basil  Joseph  =j=Sarah  Kate,  da. 


Chaplin, 
J.P.,  of  Ful¬ 
bourne,  born 
1853. 


of  John  Richard 
Chaplin,  of 
Ridgwell,  born 
1857  ( see 
Chaplin  of 
Ridgwell). 


Horace  Abraham  = 
Chaplin, born  1862. 


=  Louisa  Burrell,  of 
Wyberton, co.  Lines. 


! - 

Mabel  Louisa 

Chaplin,  born 
1892. 


L 


Thomas  Gayfer 
Chaplin,  born 
1897. 


I - 

Francis1 

Joseph 

Chaplin, 

born 

1855. 


J 


j=Jane  Eliza- 
I  beth  Graves, 
I  of  Thur- 
caston,  co. 
Leies. 


Howard  Foster 
Chaplin,  born 
1856  ;  mar. 
Elizabeth,  da.  of 
George  Morton, 
of  Bedford. 


AnneKidmanChap- 
lin,  born  1861  ;  the 
wife  of  Horace 
Joseph  Martin,  of 
Littleport,  co. 
Cambs.;  died  1902, 
without  issue. 


I - 

Abraham 
Basil  John 
Chaplin, 
born  1879. 


L 


L 


Elsie  Kate  Chap¬ 
lin,  born  1880: 
wife  of  H.  Gor¬ 
don  Smith,  of 
Fulbourne,  1910. 


Harry  Douglas  Chaplin,  of  the  Joseph  Ken- 
Stock  Exchange,  E.C.,  born  1882;  neth  Chaplin, 
mar.  (1907)  Edith  Maude,  da.  of  born  1885  ; 
Henry  Smith,  of  East  Dulwich,  an  officer  in 
and  has  issue,  Rosemary,  born  the  P.  and  O. 
1908,  and  Barbara,  born  1909.  Service. 


T - 

Esther 
Joseph¬ 
ine,  born 
21  Feb. 
1900. 


- 1 - 

Margaret 
Elizabeth 
Ann, born 
9  Jan. 

1902. 


~~i — ; - 

Annie 

Sarah 

Foster, 

born 

15  April 

1903. 


— I - 

Joseph 
Graves, 
born 
14  Aug. 
1904. 


Beryl 

Francis 

Joan, 

born 

27  Sept. 

1906. 


CHAPLIN  OF  MONKS  ELEIGH. 


95 


5® ill  of  Jrcnnj  Chaplin,  17S9. 

October  7th  1789.  Henry  Chaplin  of  Hubbard’s  Hall,  Harlow,  Co.  Essex,  Yeoman.  To  my 
wife  Ann  &  her  heirs  my  freehold  cottage  or  tenement  in  Foster  Street,  Harlow,  now  made  use  of 
for  a  pesthouse  for  the  said  parish,  &  the  rest  of  my  lands  &c.  in  Harlow.  To  my  third  (stc) 
son  Thomas,  my  leasehold  property  in  Harlow  &  High  Laver.  My  personal  estate  to  my  wife 
Ann  &  son  Thomas  to  be  divided  equally  between  my  youngest  sons  Joseph  &  Richard,  &  my 
two  daughters  Ann  &  Elizabeth,  at  21.  My  wife  Ann  &  son  Thomas  to  be  executors.  Witnesses — 
Edward  Wise,  John  Smith  his  clerke,  James  King.  Proved  Dec.  10th  1790. 

Arch.  Middlesex  (Essex  and  Herts)  168,  Rogers. 


Mill  of  (Samuel  Chaplon,  1 65G. 

February  19th,  1656.  Samuel  Chaplyn  of  Chelsworth,  yeoman,  weakly.  To  Mary  my  wife, 
an  annuity  of  £20  so  long  as  she  is  a  widow,  to  be  paid  to  her  half  yearly  by  my  son  Samuel, 
but  if  she  marry  again,  then  £12  per  annum.  If  these  be  unpaid,  then  my  wife  to  enter  on  the 
lands  I  purchased  of  William  Stebbings,  John  Cole  &  John  Clarke,  &  distrain.  To  Samuel  my 
son,  the  said  lands  lying  in  Chelsworth  &  after  his  death  an  annuity  of  £10  to  Elizabeth  his  wife. 
All  my  lands  to  be  sold  within  two  years  of  the  decease  of  Samuel  my  son  &  Mary  my  wife  by 
my  loving  brothers  Mr.  Samuel  Ward,  of  Lydgate ;  Stephen  Chaplyn  of  Nedging,  the  elder ;  John 
Natingale ;  &  John  Parke  of  Carsey,  gent,  who  are  to  distribute  the  proceeds  among  the  children 
of  my  son  Samuel,  of  whom  Samuel  my  grandson  is  to  have  a  double  part.  To  Samuel  my  son 
an  annuity  of  £5  to  be  paid  by  Abraham  my  son,  during  the  life  of  Mary  my  wife,  out  of  the 
lands  I  purchased  of  Symon  Blomfield  gent.  The  said  lands  I  give  unto  Abraham  my  son  & 
Martha  his  wife  &  their  heirs  for  ever,  but  failing  issue  then  equally  among  my  grandchildren.  To 
Abraham  also  the  land  called  Howlets,  purchased  of  Thomas  Hamond.  To  Mary  my  wife  half 
my  household  stuff,  half  my  linnen  &  £5.  To  Mary,  daughter  of  my  son  Abraham  £10  at  21. 
To  Abraham  £10.  For  putting  forth  of  my  grandchild  Samuel  as  apprentice  to  any  lawfull  calling 
£10.  To  my  loveing  brother  Nathaniel  Chaplyn  of  Colchester  £10.  To  the  poor  of  Chelsworth 
20s.  If  the  said  lands  be  sold,  then  to  Samuel  Ward,  Stephen  Chaplyn,  John  Nitingale  &  John 
Parke,  £10  between  them.  Remainder  to  Samuel  Chaplyn  my  son,  whom  I  nominate  sole  executor ; 
if  he  will  not  act  my  son  Abraham  &  John  Nitingale  &  John  Parke  to  act.  Witnesses — John 
Nitingale,  Thomas  Nelson,  his  marke.  Proved  April  30th  1657  by  Samuell  Chaplyn. 

P.C.C.  119,  Berkeley. 


Mill  of  ^Vathanid  (Chaplin,  1066. 

June  30th  1666.  Nathaniel  Chaplin  of  the  Parish  of  St.  James,  Colchester,  bayworker.  To 
my  brother  Abraham  Chaplin  the  mansion  house  in  East  Street,  Colchester,  with  the  tenement 
in  the  occupation  of  my  said  brother,  after  the  decease  of  myself  &  my  wife.  Abraham  sole 
executor.  Witnesses — Henry  Osmond,  John  Cartwright,  Stephen  Warn,  his  marke.  Proved  Dec.  14, 
1666  by  Abraham  Chaplin.  Arch.  Colchester,  1666-7,  No.  62. 

This  will  is  difficult  to  understand,  unless  “  brother  ”  is  an  error  for  “  nephew  ”  ;  otherwise 
it  is  the  first  and  only  time  one  hears  of  this  Abraham  ! 


96 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


CljapUn  of  ?i)nrloUi. 


Henry  Chaplin,  of  Hubbards  Hall,  Harlow,  co.  Essex,  yeoman.  Will  Arch.  Midx.=r  Ann. 
(Essex  and  Herts),  168  Rogers,  7  Oct.  1789;  proved  10  Dec.  1790. 


Thomas  Chaplin,  of  the  Wayre, T=Elizabeth 

Thorow- 

- r 

Joseph, 

~T 

Richard, 

nr  - 1 

Ann.  Elizabeth. 

Harlow.  Died  25  April  1823, 
aged  56  ;  bur.  at  Foster  Street 
Burial  Ground,  Harlow. 

1 

good,  who 
Oct.  1849. 

- r 

died  20 

living 

1789. 

living 

1789. 

Unmarried  in  1800.  One  of  them  said  to  have  mar. 
a  Mr.  Lake  of  Stortford,  a  brewer. 

1 - 1 - 1 

Thomas  Chaplin, =f=Sarah  Wedd, 


of  the  Brewery, 
Harlow.  Died  16 
May  1876,  aged 
69 ;  bur.  at  Foster 
Street. 


of  Chrishall 
Grange,  co. 
Essex.  Died 
2  June  1897, 
aged  86. 


Philip  Chaplin, 
of  Feltimores, 
Harlow,  a  bach¬ 
elor.  Died  9  Jan. 
1891,  aged  77. 
M.I.  Harlow 
Church. 


Frederick=T=ElizabethWedd,  Charles.  James.  John  Abraham  Chap-^f  Eliza 


Chaplin,  of 
Canes, Har¬ 
low.  Died 
25  Aug. 
1856,  aged 
44. 


r 


Thomas  Chaplin,  of=Elizabeth 
the  Wayre,  Harlow.  Wedd  of 
Born  1834  ;  died  18  Fowlmere, 
May  1890,  without  co.  Camb. 
issue. 


Sarah  Elizabeth,  living  1910, 
wife  of  Frederic  Edwards, 
B.A.,  of  Harlow,  who  died  14 
Jan.  1899.  Has  issue,  Frederic 
Chaplin  Edwards,  of  Harlow, 
and  others. 


of  Chrishall 
Grange,  co. 
Essex.  Died  7 
Nov.  1866,  aged 
56. 


Died  in  infancy. 


lin,  of  Shonks  Mill, 
Navestock,  co.  Essex. 
Died  10  Feb.  1839, 
aged  30 ;  bur.  in  Har¬ 
low  Churchyard. 


Mat¬ 

thews. 


I - 

John  Thomas  Chaplin,  who 
went  to  New  Zealand. 


T 


J 


T' 


Hannah  Elizabeth,  wife  of  John  R. 
Matthews,  of  Pleshey,  co.  Essex. 


Philip  Abraham 
Chaplin. 


Ivy  Margaret 
Chaplin. 


-l 

.  E.  Chaplin. 


Frederick.  Died  17 
May  1852,  aged  17. 


Henry.  Died  Charles  Thomas  Chaplin,  of  Har-=^=Millicent  Harkness, 
in  youth.  low.  Died  3  Aug.  1891,  aged  55.  |  of  Peckham,  S.E. 

L 


- 1 - 

Elizabeth,  wife  of 
Abraham  Reynolds. 


Jane,  wife  of 
Frederick  Smith. 


Charles  Thorowgood  Chaplin. 
Died  in  youth. 


- m - 

Millicent  Annie,  wife  of  Basil 
Scruby,  of  Harlow. 


Frederick  William  Chaplin,  of: 
the  Ferns,  Harlow. 


Gertrude  Maria  Sturdy,  of  Stoke 
Newington,  N. 


Philip,  died  2  June  1910,  aged  15. 


Frederick  Percy. 


Ruby  Ethel. 


Cljaplm  of  KttiijUicU. 


Richard  Chaplin,  of  the  Three  Chimneys  Farm,  Ridgwell. 
Died  1794,  aged  57  ;  bur.  Ridgwell  Churchyard. 


=Susannah,  da.  of  Stephen  Piper,  of  Toppesfield,  co.  Essex. 
Died  1825,  aged  85.  Will  Com.  Ct.  of  London,  509  Jackson. 


John  Chaplin,  of  the  =f=  Sarah  BintclifEe,  of 


Three  Chimneys.  Died 
1839,  aged  58 ;  bur. 
Ridgwell  Churchyard. 


Wentworth,  Wood- 
house,  co.  Yorks.  Died 
1834,  aged  37. 


Richard  Chaplin,  of  Rich-^Sarah  Bloomfield,  who 
monds  (or  Payns),  ltidg-  survived  him  and  mar. 
well.  Died  1826,  aged  61,  (in  1834),  John  Paul,  of 
without  issue.  Bottisham,  co.  Cambs. 


“1 


Abraham  Chaplin,  of=. 
Braxted,  co.  Essex. 
Died  9  Dec.  1806,  aged 
43,  without  issue. 


I - - 

John  Richard  Chaplin,  of  the  Three 
Chimneys.  Born  8  Feb.  1829 ;  died 
1  Sept.  1890,  aged  61 ;  bur.  Inde¬ 
pendent  Chapel  yard,  Ridgwell. 


Emma,  da.  of  Joseph  Giblin,  of  Little 
Bardfield,  co.  Essex.  Died  1879, 
aged  47.  He  mar.  2ndly,  Lucinda 
Giblin,  who  is  living  1910. 


Sarah  Adelaide,  wife  Susannah  Mary,  born  Abraham, 
of  John  Buxton,  of  1832,  wife  of  John  born  and 
Sheffield.  Born  1830;  Askham,  of  Sheffield.  died,  1834. 

living  1910.  ✓js 


i - (7 

Richard  Hawes  Chaplin, =j=  Kate  Mary, 3d  da. of  John 
of  the  Three  Chimneys,  Wood,  of  Connaught 
born  1856.  |  House,  Brandon, co.  Suff. 


Anita  Gwendolen.  Ethel  Dorothy.  Richard  John 
born  1887.  Born  1888.  Claude. 

Born  1894. 


I 

Sarah  Kate.  Born 

T 

Emily 

r 

John  Ben-- 

—Kate 

Cecil. 

1 

Harry 

1 

Ada  Beatrice, 

1857 ;  wife  of 

Ger- 

net  Chap- 

Mason 

Died 

Bint- 

born  1869, 

Basil  Joseph 

trude. 

lin,  of 

of 

1864, 

cliffe. 

wife  of 

Chaplin,  of  Ful- 
bourne  (see  Chap- 

Born 

Whitting- 

Haver- 

aged  2. 

Died 

Frank  Foster 

1859; 

ton,  co. 

hill, co. 

1868, 

Doggett,  of 

linofFulbournk.) 

died 

1877. 

Norf.  Born 
1860. 

Suff. 

aged  3. 

Cherryhinton 
co.  Cambs. 

CHAPLIN  OF  MONKS  ELEIGH. 


97 


®ill  of  (Samuel  dhapljm,  1680. 

February  3,  1680.  Samuel  Chaplyn  of  Ipswich,  Maultster,  sick  of  body.  To  my  son  Samuel 
all  my  lands  &c.  in  the  County  of  Suffolk.  If  he  should  die  without  heirs  before  the  age  of  21,  then 
the  said  lands  to  be  sold  &  out  of  the  proceeds  I  give  £100  each  to  my  brothers  Janies  &  Abraham, 
£60  to  Elizabeth  Bennyworth,  my  sister,  £60  to  John  Bennyworth,  my  brother  &  £40  to  my  servant 
Susan  Butcher.  To  Samuel,  my  son,  half  my  household  stuffe  &  to  Susan  Butcher  the  remainder 
If  my  personal  estate  be  insufficient  to  pay  my  debts,  then  my  land  called  Blomfields  in  Chelsworth. 
lately  purchased,  to  be  sold.  To  the  poor  of  St.  Mary  Key  40s,  &  to  the  poor  of  Chelsworth 
30s.  To  my  loving  friend  Mr.  Roger  Browne,  my  black  horse.  To  my  servant  Benjamin  Wells 
40s  &  some  of  my  old  clothes.  To  my  father  in  law  Samuel  Chaplyn  (sic)  £4.  My  loving  friends 
Robert  Stevenson  &  Truth  Norish  to  be  my  executors,  to  whom  £15  a  piece.  Witnesses— John 
Butcher,  Richard  Reyner,  Thos.  Thurston,  Robert  Fynn,  Abraham  Greene,  Augustine  Parker.  Proved 
February  9th  1680.  Arch.  Suffolk  Register  1680,  No.  169. 


CJjapltn  of  Cijflstoorti). 


Robert  Cbaplin,  of  Monks  Eleigh.  Admon. =f=  Mary  Sander,  at  Monks — Joshua  Ward,  of  Boyton  Hall, 
P.C.C.  12  Aug.  1596,  to  Mario  Chapleyn,  relict.  I  Eleigh,  1585.  Monks  Eleigk,  2d  husband. 


I - 

Samuel  Cbaplin,  of  Chelsworth,  =j=Mary,  bur. 
Will  P.C.C.  119  Berkeley,  19  Feb.  Nedging, 
1656.  Proved  30  April  1657.  1667. 

Bur.  at  Nedging. 


Nathaniel  Chaplin,  of  Colchester, =.  .  . 
bay  worker.  Will,  Arch.  Col¬ 
chester,  30  June  1666  ;  proved 
14  Dec.  1666.  No  issue. 


(Abra-  Mary,'  wife  of 
ham?).  William  Suaine, 
of  Heigham. 

( Tanner.) 


Samuel  Chaplin,  of  Chelsworth.  Admon. =y  Elizabeth,  bur. 
P.C.C.  5  Feb.  1658,  to  Elizabeth  Chaplin,  c.  1691. 
relict. 


Abraham,  bapt.  =f=  Martha.  Mary,  bapt.  1621; 

at  Nedging,  bur.  1628. 

1623. 


— I 

Judith,  the  wife 
of  .  .  .  Stephenson, 
Rector  of  Borough 
Green  in  Cambs. 
(Tanner.) 


Philip,  bapt. 
1619. 


Samuel  Chaplin,  of  St.  Mary  Key,  Ipswich, =y.  .  .  .  Abraham  Chaplin,  of  James  Chaplin,  of  Sprough ton,  a  bachelor ;  Mary,  under 
maltster.  Will,  Arch.  Suff.  3  Feb.  1680;  Ipswich,  woolcomber.  dead  in  1694,  but  admon.  to  brother  21  in  1656. 

proved  9  Feb.  1680.  Bur.  at  Nedging.  Abraham,  Arch.  Suff.,  22  Dec.  1700. 

I - 

Samuel  Chaplin,  aged  6  in  1680  (perhaps  identical  with  Samuel  Chaplyn, 
of  Ipswich,  who  died  on  the  high  seas,  admon.  of  whose  goods  was  granted 
to  William  Browne;  maternal  grandfather,  at  Ipswich,  10  Feb.  1696). 


Mill  of  John  (Eltapiin,  1612. 

June  26th  1612.  John  Chaplin  of  Kedington.  To  Marie,  my  wife,  all  the  tenements  &c.  which 
I  bought  of  my  brother  Abraham  Chaplin,  wherein  I  now  dwell,  for  life,  so  long  as  she  remain 
unmarried,  &  then  to  John  my  sonne,  who  shall  pay  to  Marie,  Rebecka  &  Suzan  my  daughters 

£20  each  at  the  age  of  21.  Marie,  my  wife,  to  choose  three  of  my  best  beasts  &  my  household 

stuffe  to  be  divided  between  my  wife  &  three  daughters.  My  son  John,  sole  executor.  Witnesses — 

Abraham  Chaplin,  John  Brett.  Proved  at  Bury  March  8,  1616. 

Arch.  Sudbury  Register  1616,  fo.  154. 

O 


98 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES- 


(Mill  of  (Scorgc  Chaplin,  1674. 

January  8th  1674.  George  Chaplin  of  Colchester,  Woolcomber,  weak  in  body.  To  my  brothers 
Abraham  Chaplin  &  Thomas  Chaplin,  &  my  sister  Ann  Wood,  Is  each.  To  my  brother  Samuell 
of  Colchester  aforesaid,  woolcomber,  £20  &  my  wearing  apparel  both  linnen  &  woollen.  Remainder 
to  my  mother.  My  brother  Samuell  Chaplin,  sole  executor.  Witnesses— Richard  Wright,  William 
Chamberlin.  Proved  at  Colchester,  Feb.  1st  1674. 

Commissary  Court  of  London  (Essex  and  Herts)  402,  Pleasant. 


(Mill  of  Jlbraham  Chaplin,  1702. 

June  28th  1722.  Abraham  Chaplin  of  Monk’s  Eligh,  co.  Suff.  yoman.  To  my  son  George 
Chaplin  in  Monk’s  Eligh,  my  farm  comonly  known  as  Swingleton.  To  Abraham  son  of  my  son 
Abraham  Chaplin,  &  to  John  son  of  my  son  John  Chaplin  £5  each  to  be  paid  by  George. 
Remainder  to  my  son  George,  executor.  Signed,  Abraham  Chaplin  (seal  effaced).  Witnesses — John 
Nice,  Mickaell  Nice,  Stephen  Nice.  Proved  May  26th  1727  by  George  Chaplin. 

Court  of  Dean  of  Booking,  Reg.  1727. 


(Mill  of  Nathaniel  Chaplin,  1768. 

May  3rd  1768.  Nathaniel  Chaplin  of  Monk’s  Eleigh,  Farmer.  To  daughters  Sarah  Roberts  & 
Hannah  Brooks,  £20  each,  &  to  daughters  Mary  &  Rachel  £100  each.  All  the  rest  to  son  Robert, 
executor.  Witnesses — Sam1  Stivens,  Chas  Squire.  Proved  June  6th  1770,  by  Robert.  (Note  on 
probate. — Testator  died  in  May  last.)  Court  of  the  Dean  of  Booking,  Reg.  1770. 


CJjapltn  of  JHonfcs 


John  Chaplin,  of  Kedington,  co.  Suff.  Will,  Arch.  Sudbury,  154  Legate,  =f=  Mary  .  .  .  . 
26  June  1612  ;  proved  8  March  1616.  Bur.  at  Kettlebaston. 


r 


John  Chaplin,  of  Winkoll’s  Hall  and  Bovton  Hall,  Monks1 
Eleigh.  Inherited  tenement  called  “  William  Hobarts  ” 
at  Swingleton  Green,  Monks  Eleigh,  from  his  uncle 
Abraham.  Bur.  at  Monks  Eleigh,  1658. 


:Anne  .  .  .  ,  died  be¬ 
tween  1684  and  1687 
(Monks  Eleigh  Court 
Rolls.  P.R.O.) 


Mary,  mar.  Wil-  Rebecca,  wife  of 
Hum  Cheat  at  Thomas  Mit- 
Kettlebaston,  chell,  of  Laven- 
1617.  ham. 


- 1 

Susan,  mar.  Wil¬ 
liam  Brooke  at 
Kettlebaston, 
1622. 


Anne,  bapt.  1626 ;  the  wife  of  William  Elizabeth,  Hannah,  bapt.  John,  bapt.  1632 ;  Sarah,  bapt.  Susannah, 

Wood,  of  Needham  Market,  1655.  Men-  bapt.  1628.  1630.  probably  bur.  1667.  1635.  bapt.  1638. 

tioned  in  will  of  brother  George. 


I - - 

Abraham  Chaplin,  of  Monks  Eleigh,  bapt.q=.  .  .  . 
1639;  inherited  “William  Hobarts”  on 
death  of  mother.  Will,  Deanery  of  Book¬ 
ing,  28  June  1722  ;  proved  26  May  1727. 


Thomas, men-  Mary, 
tioned  in  will  bapt. 
of  brother  1644. 
George. 


George. 


John.j=.  . 


John. 


- ! - 

George  Chaplin,  of  Colchester, wool¬ 
comber,  bapt.  1645.  Will,  Com.  Ct. 
of  London  (Essex  &  Herts)  402 
Pleasant,  8  Jan.  1674 ;  proved 
1  Feb.  1674. 

- 1 

Abraham.1?.  .  .  . 


Abraham. 


*1 

Samuel,  of  Colchester, 
woolcomber, bapt.  1650; 
mentioned  in  will  of 
brother  George. 


«rl)aplin  of  €ast  fikrgtiolt. 


(Mill  of  (Stephen  (Ehaplin,  1673. 

December  20th  1673.  Stephen  Chaplin  of  Edwardston,  co.  Suff.,  carpenter.  To  Anne  my 
lovinge  wife,  all  my  lands  in  Edwardston  for  life,  &  afterwards  to  Joseph  Chaplin,  my  son,  he 
paying  £50  to  Joseph  Brand  of  Edwardston  to  redeem  the  mortgage  &  also  paying  to  Stephen 
Chaplin  my  son  £5,  to  Abraham  &  Isaac  my  sons  £10  each,  &  to  Hannah  my  daughter,  now 
wife  of  John  Brooke  of  Colchester,  ship  carpenter  £10,  after  the  decease  of  Anne  my  wife.  To 
Richard,  Stephen  &  Joseph,  my  grandchildren,  the  sons  of  Stephen  my  son  20s  each.  To  Edward 
&  Anne  Chaplin,  children  of  Edward  Chaplin,  late  of  Colchester  deceased  40s  each  at  21.  All 
the  rest  of  my  property  to  be  divided  between  my  wife  &  my  son  Isaac.  My  wife  Anne,  &  my 
sons  Joseph  &  Isaac  to  be  my  executors.  Stephen  Chaplin  (marke  of).  Witnesses — Stephen 
Newcomen,  Jo.  Carter.  Proved  by  Joseph  &  Isaac  Chaplin,  July  3rd  1677. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Register,  1677,  fo.  470. 


@Sttli  oi  Isaac  (Khaplirt,  1721. 

October  17th  1721.  Isaac  Chaplin,  of  Fordham,  co.  Essex,  carpenter,  aged  &  infirme.  To  my  brother- 
in-law,  John  Potter  of  Wake’s  Colne,  gent,  (whom  I  appoint  executor,  giving  him  £10)  my  lands  in 
Fordham,  charged  with  the  following  legacies  :  Unto  the  six  daughters  of  my  brother  Abraham  Chaplin 
£7  each.  To  Robert  Chaplin,  son  of  my  late  couzen  Stephen  Chaplin  £4.  To  my  couzen  Margarett 
Chaplin,  daughter  of  my  couzen  Joseph  Chaplin  40s.  To  Mr.  Barber  ye  surgeon  for  looking  after 
William  Chaplin  £4.  To  Edward  Chaplin,  son  of  my  couzin  Edward  Chaplin  £5,  &  to  Elizabeth  & 
Mary,  his  daughters  £5  each.  To  the  three  daughters  of  my  brother  Stephen  Chaplin  40s  each.  To 
Susanna,  wife  of  John  Deane  of  Fordham  40s,  &  to  Mary,  wife  of  William  Roberson  of  West 
Bergholt  £4.  To  Isaac  Chaplin,  son  of  my  couzin  Edward  Chaplin  £50.  To  James  Ward  my 
godson  20s.  Remainder  to  my  cousin  Isaac  Chaplin  &  his  sister  Mary  at  21.  To  my  couzin 
Isaac  Chaplin  &  his  heirs  the  cottages  I  bought  of  my  couzin  John  Deane,  my  executor  to  be 
guardian  until  he  is  21.  To  my  wife  Anne  Chaplin  all  my  goods  &  the  interest  upon  £100,  being 
in  the  hands  of  my  brother  Joseph  Chaplin,  for  life,  &  after  her  death  I  give  the  principal  to  my 
couzin  Hannah  Smith,  daughter  of  Thomas  Smith,  late  of  Colchester,  wine  merchant,  but  -if  she 
dies  before  21,  then  the  said  £100  to  Benjamin  Chaplin  son  of  my  brother  Joseph.  To  my  brother 
Joseph  &  his  wife,  my  cozen  Henry  Hanke,  my  cozen  Elizabeth  Blomfield,  Mr.  Toon  &  his  wife, 
Mr.  Battson  &  his  wife,  my  cozen  Seaman  &  his  wife,  &  my  cozen  Benjamin  Chaplin,  one  guinea 


100 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


each  for  a  ring.  £20  to  my  poor  relatives  in  most  need  at  the  discretion  of  my  executor  within 
five  years  of  my  decease.  To  my  kinsman  Benjamin  Chaplin,  &  Edmund  Sherman  of  Dedham, 
John  Lay  of  Much  Tay,  yeoman,  &  William  Lay  of  Fordham,  each  40s.  My  brother  in  law,  John 
Potter,  to  be  my  executor,  if  he  refuses,  then  John  Lay,  to  whom  £8.  Witnesses — Francis  Wilder, 
John  Eldred,  &  Wm.  Thoroughgood.  Proved  July  14th  1722  by  John  Potter. 

Commissary  Court  of  London  (Essex  and  Herts),  254,  Goodwin. 


Mill  of  Joseph  Chaplin,  1725. 

Joseph  Chaplin  of  East  Bergholt,  co.  Sufi.,  Esq.  [Testator  first  refers  to  indentures  of 
lease  and  release,  dated  15  and  16  Oct.  1724,  between  himself  of  the  one  part  and  Sir  Gerard 
Conyers  and  Sir  Charles  Peers,  Knights,  of  the  other  part,  by  which  all  his  mannors,  lands,  &c., 
in  East  Bergholt,  Stratford,  Braham  als  Brantham,  Wenham  Combusta,  Bently,  Capell  & 
Chattisham  were  settled  to  the  uses  therein  named].  To  my  son  in  law  Henry  Hankey,  citizen  & 
haberdasher  of  London,  all  the  copyhold  meadows  in  Dedham  &  Stratford  which  I  bought  of 
Captain  Langley ;  also  the  messuage  at  Edwardstone  after  the  death  of  my  brother  Abraham 
Chaplin’s  widow,  who  has  a  life  interest  according  to  deed,  &  to  him  also  my  messuage  in  TowTer 
St.,  London  &  my  two  messuages  in  Colchester  &  all  the  messuages  in  Groton  to  himself  &  his 
heirs,  subject  to  an  annuity  of  £80  to  my  son  Benjamin  Chaplin.  None  of  my  children  have  been 
fully  advanced,  but  the  following  sums  have  been  paid  to  them  To  Elizabeth,  wife  of  William 
Blomfield  £2,200.  To  Sarah,  wife  of  George  Archer  £1,000,  to  Hannah  £1,000,  to  Mary  £2,200, 
to  Susan  £2,000  &  to  Benjamin  £1,500,  which  sums  are  to  be  brought  into  hotchpot.  To  my 
wife  £100,  having  made  provision  for  her  before  marriage.  To  my  grandchildren  Joseph,  Henry, 
Thomas  &  Mary  Hankey,  children  of  my  daughter  Anne  Hankey,  deceased.  To  Henry  Hankey 
the  household  stuff  at  East  Bergholt  &  the  three  silver  salvers  given  me  by  Queen  Anne,  upon  which 
her  arms  are  engraven.  To  each  of  my  brother  Abraham’s  children  £10.  To  my  neice  Elizabeth 
Bruce  £20  per  annum.  To  her  son  Abraham  Bruce.  To  the  children  of  my  nephew  Edward 
Chaplin.  I  give  £250  to  purchase  land  at  Edwardstone  for  providing  five  poor  men  with  coats 
&  shoes  &  five  poor  women  with  petticoats  &  shoes.  I  give  the  estate  I  lately  purchased  in  East 
Bergholt  of  Thomas  Sicklemore  to  Henry  Hankey  &  his  heirs  to  establish  the  same  charity  in 
East  Bergholt.  To  Mrs.  Amy  Jacomb,  Sir  Gerard  Conyers  &  Sir  Charles  Peers  20s  each  to  buy 
a  ring.  To  my  kinswoman  Hannah  Smith,  daughter  of  Thomas  Smith,  late  of  Colchester,  merchant, 
£200  at  24  or  marriage.  To  Henry  Hankey  my  coach  &  horses.  Part  of  my  estate  is  invested 
for  my  son  Benjamin  &  his  children  if  he  have  any,  but  if  he  should  molest  Hankey  then  the 
legacies  &c.  to  him  are  to  be  void.  Henry  Hankey,  Walter  Gullifer  &  my  grandsons  Joseph  & 
Thomas  Hankey  to  be  executors.  Witnesses — Rice  Williams,  Henry  Creek,  Ann  Newton,  June  26th 
1725.  Codicil. — My  daughter  Susan,  wife  of  Francis  Batson,  being  now  deceased,  I  give  to  Mary 
my  wife  an  annuity  of  £150,  &  Hannah  Smith  also  being  dead,  therefore  I  give  to  my  cousin 
Elizabeth  Towning  &  her  sister  Hannah  Calley,  widow,  £25  each.  To  their  sister,  Mary  Chaplin 
£10.  To  Elizabeth  Mead,  widow,  &  Mary  Chaplin,  daughters  of  Edward  Chaplin,  deceased,  £20  each. 
£100  to  my  wife  &  Henry  Hankey  to  distribute  among  the  poor  of  East  Bergholt.  December  23rd 
1727.  Witnesses — Rice  Williams,  Wm.  Rowe,  &  Fra  :  Bridges.  Proved  October  23rd  1728  by  Henry 
Hankey,  power  reserved  to  Walter  Gullifer.  P.C.C.  286,  Brooke. 


CHAPLIN  OF  EAST  BERGHOLT. 


101 


^tmumcntal  Inscription  in  (East  gergholt  Church. 

On  an  altar  tomb  in  the  North  Chapel. 

Ermine,  on  a  chief  indented  Vert,  three  griffons’  heads  erased  Argent  {Chaplin),  with  Parker 
of  Erwarton  on  a  scutcheon  of  pretence.  Crest. — A  griffon’s  head  erased,  ensigned  with  a  ducal 
coronet. 

“Under  This  Stone  Lieth  /  Joseph  Chaplin  Esqr  Late  of  /  This  Parish,  Lord  of  the  Mannors 
of  old  /  Hall  and  the  Coihandre,  Patron  of  Brantham  /  cum  Bergholt,  and  Here  to  Fore  High  Sherif  / 
of  the  Comity  of  Suffolk  who  died  the  22d  /  Day  of  October  1728  In  ye  83th  Year  of  his  Age/ 
Here  Also  Lieth  Marcy  His  second  wife  /  who  was  Sister  And  Heiress  of  /  Henry  Parker  Esqr  Late 
of  this /Parish  who  Died  the  7  th  Day  of  December  /  1711  in  the  62d  Year  of  Her  Age.  /  His  First 
wife  was  Anne  ye  Daughter  /  of  Rice  Price  of  Londen  Gen1  /  By  whom  he  Had  Several  Children.  / 
And  His  Third  Wife,  Mary  y«  Daughter  /  of  John  Bourchier  Late  of  /  Ipswich  Doctor  of  Phvsick  & 
Widdow  /  of  Joseph  Gullifer  of  this  /  Parish  Gen1  who  Survived  /  Him.” 


Cfjapltn  of  Cast  Ucnjljolt. 


Stephen  Chaplin,  of  Edwardstone,  co.  Suff.,  carpenter.  Will,  Archd.  Sudbury,^  Anne,  died 
470  Head,  20  Dec.  1673  ;  proved  3  July  1677.  (Probably  a  descendant  of  John  between 
Chaplin,  of  Monks  Eleigh  [Pedigree  II],  through  Stephen,  his  3’ouiigest  son.'  1673  and 

1677. 


Edward  Chap¬ 
lin,  of  Col¬ 
chester  ;  dead 
in  1673. 


T - 1 - - 

Anne,  da.=p  Joseph  Chaplin  (bornaboutl645),- 


L 


Edward. .  .  Anne. 


of  Eice 
Price,  of 
London, 
Mer¬ 
chant, 
1671. 


Edward. 


Elizabeth,  wife 
of  ...  .  Mead. 


Isaac,  under 
21  in  1721. 


Mary,  under 
21  in  1721. 


citizen  and  wine  cooper  of  Lon¬ 
don  ;  Lord  of  the  Manors  of  Old 
Hall  and  the  Commandry,  East 
Bergholt ;  High  Sheriff  of  Suf¬ 
folk.  Will,  P.C.C.  286  Brooke, 
26  June  1723  ;  proved  23  Oct. 
1728.  M.I.  East  Bergholt. 


=2d,  Mercy ,: 
sister  and 
heiress  of 
Henry 
Parker, 
Esq.,  of 
EastBerg- 
holt. 


=3d,  Mary,  da. 
of  Dr.  John 
Bourchier,  of 
Ipswich,  and 
widow  of  Ed- 
wardGulliver, 
of  East  Berg¬ 
holt. 


Isaac  Chaplin,  of  Fordham,  co.  Essex,— Anne 
carpenter.  Will,  Commissary  Court,  Potter, 
London  (Essex  &  Herts),  254  Good-  of  Earls 
win.  17  Oct.  1721 ;  proved  14  July  Colne, co. 
1722.  No  issue.  Essex. 


T 


— "1 

Abraham  =?=. 


Chaplin,  of 
Edward- 
stone  (dead 
before 
1725). 


who 

sur¬ 

vived 

him. 


(Six  daughters.) 


Stephen' 

Chaplin, 

(living 

1673). 


I  l  l 


BenjaminChap-= 

=Rachel,  dau.  of  Edmund 

Anne,  the  wife 

Elizabeth, 

Sarah,  the 

Susan, 

lin,  in  the  Fleet 

Cresfield,  Esq.;  died  1727. 

of  Henry  Han- 

the  wife  of 

wife  of 

the  wife 

Prison,  1726. 

For  will,  see  Exchequer 

key  (after¬ 

William 

George 

of  Fran¬ 

Probably  died 

Special  Commissions ;  De¬ 

wards  Sir 

Blomfield, 

Archer. 

cis  Bat¬ 

without  issue. 

positions  Mason  v.  Fox, 

Henry  Han- 

of  U fiord. 

— 

son;  died 

Chaplin  and  others, 

key),  1694. 

Will,  P.C.C. 

Hannah. 

before 

3  Geo.  II,  Mich.  25. 

104  Busby, 

— 

1728 

1751. 

Mary. 

Hannah,  wife 
of  John 
Brooke,  of 
Colchester, 
ship  carpen¬ 
ter. 


Richard  (living 
1673). 


Stephen.  Admon.  P.C.C.  9  Nov.  1681,  to  Stephen  Chaplin, father  Joseph,  living=f=. 
and  next  of  kin,  Martha  Chaplin,  widow,  renouncing.  1673. 


FT-! 

(Three  daughters). 


Margaret. 


Ctjaplm  of  Berner,  IB ury  etc. 


It  is  somewhat  difficult  to  decide  the  exact  provenance  of  this  family,  but  considering  that 
they  are  first  heard  of  at  Long  Melford,  it  is  possible  that  they  may  have  come  from  the  Essex 
side  of  the  border.  The  Essex  Lay  Subsidy  Rolls  give : — 

14  &  15  Hen.  VIII.  Pentlow.  Nicholas  Chapeleyn  ; 

Borley.  John  Chapeleyn ; 

34  &  35  Hen.  VIII.  Foxherd.  John  Chaplin ; 

and  it  may  be  that  the  bequests  to  the  poor  in  Wm.  Chaplin’s  will  of  1575,  denote  some 
connection  with  these  places. 

It  is  fitting  that  their  pedigrees  should  be  placed  beside  those  of  the  Monks  Eleigh  family, 
for  although  the  connection  between  the  two  is  of  the  slightest,  yet  they  have  lived  side  by 
side  during  many  periods  in  their  history,  and  the  same  Puritan  traditions  have  animated  them 
alike.  Moreover  the  present,  day  representatives  of  the  family  now  under  consideration  can  claim 
descent  from  both  stocks  through  their  ancestress,  Mary  Piper,  whose  mother  was  daughter  of 
Henry  Chaplin,  of  the  family  already  dealt  with. 


0HiU  of  SStillimn  (tthaplen,  1575. 

Nov.  15th  1575.  William  Chaplen  of  Long  Melford,  yoman.  To  be  buried  in  the  Churchyard 
of  Melford.  To  the  repairs  of  the  churche  40s.  To  my  brother  Clement  Chaplen  £3  &  the  lease 

of  the  piece  of  land  called  Cookes  &c.  which  I  ferme  of  Mr.  Warren  &  also  the  lease  of  land 

being  by  Coke’s  Tye  called  Lyttle  Thurgoes.  To  Clements  eldest  son  William,  my  godson,  the 
remainder  of  the  lease  of  all  lands  held  by  Mr.  Warren,  also  one  good  cow  &  40s  at  the  age  of 
16.  To  my  eldest  son  Edmund,  the  lease  of  the  farm  at  Melford  called  Tarnes,  where  I  now 
dwell,  &  all  lands  lately  bought  of  Israel  Ford,  excepting  Lyttle  Thurgoes.  To  Mary  Greengrasse, 
daughter  of  John  Greengrasse  late  of  Melford,  besides  the  £50  bequeathed  by  her  said  father,  40s 
of  my  owne  goods  at  the  time  of  her  marriage.  To  my  sister  Johan  Ballard  40s,  and  13s  4d  & 
6s  8d  respectively  to  her  two  children.  To  my  godson,  the  son  of  my  sister  Ballard,  10s  at  21.  My 
said  brother  Thomas  Chaplen.  To  Ballard’s  Boye  now  with  me,  lame,  20s.  To  my  daughter  Alice, 
at  her  marriage  or  21,  two  good  beasts,  the  bequest  of  her  mother.  Requests  payment  of  the 

“  debts,  legacies,  &c.  dewe  to  any  of  the  children  or  kinsfolk  of  my  late  predecessor,  John  Greengrasse.” 

To  the  poor  of  Melford,  40s  per  annum  for  ten  years  on  the  anniversary  of  my  burial.  To  the 
poor  of  each  parish  in  Sudbury,  6s  8d.  To  the  poor  of  Ackton  3s  4d,  Foxherd  2s,  Borley  28,  & 
Lyston  16d.  To  such  poor  people  as  my  supervisor  shall  think  fit,  10s  to  pray  for  me.  To  my 
daughter  Alice,  the  messuages  in  Acton  called  Sackes  &  Himes.  To  my  son  William  my  grey 


CHAPLIN  OF  SEMER,  BURY,  ETC. 


103 


coulte  which  I  bought  at  Wolpett  Fayer.  To  my  sister  Jone  Ballard,  a  tenement  on  Cokes  Tye 
for  life,  afterwards  to  the  poor  of  Melford  for  ever.  Residewe  equally  between  Edmund  &  William 
my  sons,  whom  I  appoint  executors,  &  who  are  to  occupy  in  common  until  Xmas  next.  Roger 
Martyn,  supervisor,  to  whom  20s.  Witnesses — Roger  Martyn,  Humfrey  Rosebury’  Thomas  Large, 
Peter  Patinson,  WTlliam  Payne,  &  William  Greene,  Edmund  Chaplen.  Proved  January  25th  1577/8. 

P.C.C.  3,  Langley. 


qM ill  of  (Eimtuni)  (Eltaplgn,  1618. 


July  3rd  1618.  Edmond  Chaplyn  of  the  Parish  of  St.  Giles  without  Cripplegate,  sicke.  To 
my  wife  Ann,  the  manor  of  Linsey  als  Lillesey,  for  life.  The  tenement  called  Tibbies  Drowch  in 
the  parishes  of  Seiner,  Whatfield  &  Nowton,  now  in  the  occupation  of  Robert  Heyward,  to  be 
sold,  also  the  messuage  &  farm  called  Barrett’s  in  Hadleigh  &  Aldham,  in  the  occupation  of  William 
Weaver.  If  Ann  consent  to  the  sale,  then  I  give  to  her  the  farm  where  one  Laughlyn  now  dwelleth 
&  before  him  one  Thomas  Colman ;  if  not,  the  said  farm  to  be  sold  &  the  proceeds  divided  between 
my  two  daughters  Ursula  &  Elizabeth,  at  17  or  marriage.  The  lease  of  my  chambers  at  Grayes 
Inne  shall  be  solde.  To  my  wife  the  lease  of  my  new  dwelling  house  in  Grubb  St.  My  household 
stuffe  to  be  divided  into  five  parts,  whereof  my  wife,  &  my  children  Edmund,  William,  Ursula 
&  Elizabeth  are  to  have  one  each.  To  Edmund,  my  son,  the  farm  called  Clarkes  in  Linsey,  Kersey 
&  Growton.  To  William,  the  farm  called  Barretts,  but  if  sold,  then  Laughlyns.  To  my  brothers- 
in-law  Thomas  Bryan  &  John  Wincoll,  whom  I  appoint  my  executors,  £10  each,  &  40s  for  a  ring. 
To  Augustine  Rowe  the  younger  my  godson  £6  .  13 . 4.  My  brother-in-law  Augustine  Rowe  to 
be  overseer  of  my  will.  Witnesses — Aug.  Rowe,  Edmond  Harrison,  William  Palmer,  George  Clarke. 
Proved  April  10th  1641.  P.C.C.  40,  Evelyn. 


Mill  of  (Ebtrantb  (Khapiitt,  1618. 

The  sixte  day  of  October,  1618,  Edmunde  Chaplin  of  Little  Waldingfield,  co.  Suffolk.  To 
be  buried  where  I  may  die,  or  in  Lindsey.  To  my  grandchild  Edmund,  eldest  son  of  my  late 
son  Edmund,  the  messuage  called  “  Lyons  ”  at  Whatfield,  now  in  the  occupation  of  Robert  Heyward, 
at  the  age  of  25,  &  to  him  also  100  marks.  To  William  Chaplin  the  son  of  Edmund  £20  at  21. 
To  Ursula  &  Elizabeth  daughters  of  my  son  Edmund  £40  apiece.  To  John  Wincoll  my  grandchild 
£10  at  the  age  of  14,  &  to  Anne  Wincoll  my  grandchild  £20.  To  Awdrey  Wincoll  my  daughter 
£6  .  13 . 4  to  buy  a  gowne.  To  John  &  Audrey  Wincoll,  &  to  Thomas  Brian  &  Martha  Brian 
my  daughter,  a  gold  ring  each,  value  40s.  To  John  Howe  of  Melford,  my  nephew  &  Judith  his 
wife,  a  gold  ring  value  20s.  To  my  very  good  friend  Mr.  Thomas  lies  of  Hammersmith,  co. 
Middlesex,  gent.,  a  gold  ring  value  40s,  desiring  him  of  all  kindness  to  be  a  good  grandfather  &c. 
to  the  children  of  Edmund  Chaplin  his  son-in-law  &  his  wife,  Anne.  To  the  poor  of  Waldingfield 
40s.  If  buried  in  Lindsey,  40s  to  the  poor  there,  if  not,  20s.  To  Pernell  Wilkinson,  wife  of 
Wilkinson  the  elder  &  to  Widow  Mallard,  both  of  little  Waldingfield,  5s  each.  All  the  remainder 
to  Martha  my  wife  whom  I  make  executor,  with  John  Wincoll  &  Thomas  Brian  my  sons  in  law. 
Witnesses— George  Wincoll,  Francis  Wincoll,  Joseph  Briant.  Proved  February  8th  1618/9  by  John 
Wincoll  &  Thomas  Brian,  power  reserved  to  Martha  Chaplin,  widow.  Sentence  for  confirmation 
June  21st  1619.  P.C.C.  40,  Parker. 


104 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


®ill  of  <3lrme  Chaplgrt,  16^9. 

January  26th  1629.  Anne  Cliaplyn  of  Seamer,  wydowe.  To  my  kinsman  James  Clopton 
son  of  my  brother  Rysse  Clopton  £10  on  marriage.  To  Suzan  Stevens  daughter  of  Bryant  Stevens 
50s  at  21  or  marriage.  To  Henrie  Stevens  brother  to  Suzan  50s  at  24.  To  Richard  Stevens 

brother  to  Henry  50s  at  21.  To  Anne  Parke  the  daughter  of  Robert  Parke  50s  at  21  or  marriage 

&  if  she  do  not  survive  then  to  my  godson  William  Parke,  brother  to  Anne.  To  William  Smeth 
&  Robert  Smeth,  the  twoe  sonnes  of  my  said  sonne-in-law  Robert  Smeth,  50s  apiece  at  21.  Unto 
Fraunces  Chaplyn  &  Robert  Chaplyn,  the  twoe  sons  of  my  sonne-in-law  Robert  Chaplyn,  50s  each 
at  21.  To  Judith  Frost  daughter  unto  my  kinsman  James  Frost  20s  at  24.  To  Anne  Clopton 
daughter  of  my  kinsman  Fraunces  Clopton.  To  the  poor  of  Seamer  10s.  To  the  poore  of  the  town 

where  I  shall  be  buried  5s.  Lastly  to  my  sonne  in  lawe  Richard  Chaplyn  my  lease  of  a  farme 

called  Wallye  lying  in  Paswicke  (co.  Essex).  Richard  Chaplyn,  executor.  The  marke  of  the  aforesaide 
Anne  Chaplyn.  Witnesses — John  Browning,  Steven  Goymer  (marke).  Proved  May  6th  1631. 

Arch.  Sudb.  9,  Colman. 


Pftuflrfe  front  Canfclrr's  ifl.S'.,  pp.  420,  421. 


William  Chaplin ,  of  Semer. 


.n - 1 - 

William  Chaplin,  Richard,  s.p., 
of  Blaxhall.  of  Semer. 


Cupt.  Robt.=F Elizabeth, 


J 


Chaplin,  of 
Bury. 


r 

William, an — .  .  .  of  - 

attorney  in  Robt.  Am- 
Ipswich.  bye,  of  Ips¬ 
wich,  gent., 
an  attor¬ 
ney. 


-.  .  .  da.  of 
. . .  Hum¬ 
phrey, 
Portman 
of  Ips¬ 
wich. 


da.  of  Fran¬ 
cis  Asty,  of 
Bury. 


ru — ; — 

Francis. 


Robert. 


I  I  I 

Susan. 


Ann. 


Elizabeth. 


her 

father 

gave 

her 

£300. 


Barret 

of 

Strat¬ 

ford. 


.  .  .,  her— Smith, 
father  of 
gave  her  Semer. 
£200. 


1 


Martha, — Robt. 


her 
father 
gave  her 
£300. 


J 


Thomas. — Elizabeth,  da.  of  Thomas 
Meadowe,  of  Coddenham. 


Parker, 
of  Wol- 
pit.  He 
went  to 
New 

England. 


L 


Thomas  Chaplin,  of^fElizabeth,  da.  of 


Bury,  linendraper, 
Alderman  and  J.P. 
for  Suffolk. 


.  .  .  Hinds,  gent., 
goldsmith,  of 
Bury. 


- 1 -  - 

Clement,  a  chandler,  in  Bury.  Went  over — Sarah,  da.  of  .  .  .  Edmund,  of  Se- 

to  New  England,  and  was  one  of  ye  elders  Hinds,  gent.,  mer. 

in  the  congregation  whereof  Mr.  Hooker  goldsmith,  of 

was  minister.  One  of  Mr.  Hooker’s  16  Bury,  co-heiress.  Many  children. 

ministers. 


r~ 

William. 


Anne. — Jasper  Sheppard,  Alderman  of 
Bury  this  year,  1658. 


Abigail. — Robt.  Whiting,  of  ..  ., 
Norfolk. 


©rancerg  preachings  btfon  1714  ^rtbgcs,  407. 

(Khaplgit  to.  ©inplgn. 

Anne  Chaplin,  widow,  relict  of  Richard  Chapplin,  late  of  Seamer,  co.  Suffolk,  shews  that 
Richard  Chaplin,  her  late  husband,  being  seized  of  certain  copyhold  &  freehold  lands  in  Seamer 
&  Whatfield,  surrendered  the  copyholds  to  the  uses  of  his  will,  &  three  years  afterwards  made 
his  will.  Having  no  childe  he  gave  to  his  wife  for  life  his  capital  messuage  called  the  Dayrie, 
where  he  lived,  with  the  appurtenances  in  Seamer  &  Whatfield  (excepting  Chappelfield,  of  the 
yearly  value  of  £5)  &  afterwards  to  William  Chaplin,  his  elder  brother’s  son.  To  Richard  Chaplin, 
his  nephew,  brother  to  the  said  William,  he  gave  Chappelfield,  &  £100.  To  his  widow  he  gave 
£100  &  goods  in  the  parlor  worth  £60.  He  made  William  Chaplin,  brother  to  Richard  the  younger, 
executor,  &  died  leaving  personal  estate  to  the  value  of  £500.  Both  William  &  Richard  now  deny 


CHAPLIN  OF  SEMER,  BURY,  ETC. 


105 


the  existence  of  the  will,  &  the  latter  alleges  that  on  his  marriage  with  Margaret,  one  of  the 
daughters  of  Francis  Asty,  gent.,  Richard  Chaplin,  Senr.,  promised  him  £100  &  on  such  pretended 
promise  has  arrested  the  petitioner  &  commenced  an  action  against  her  in  the  Kings  Bench  as 
executor  of  her  husband,  to  which  she  has  pleaded  “  ne  unquos  executrix  ”  (?).  Her  husband  gave 
£50  to  Richard  Chaplin  Junr.,  during  his  lifetime. 

July  17,  1647.  The  answer  of  William  Chaplin  alleges  that  Anne  has  taken  all  the  personal 
estate  into  her  own  hands  &  has  been  admitted  tenant  of  the  manor  of  Barrards  in  Whatfield. 


Si® ill  of  Thomas  Chaplin,  1655. 

August  8th  1655.  Thomas  Chaplyn,  citizen  &  clothworker  of  London.  To  Mary  my  loving 
wife  £50.  My  executors  to  purchase  an  estate  of  £45  per  annum  to  the  use  of  my  wife  for  life 
&  after  to  Thomas  &  William  Chaplyn  sons  of  my  brother  Samuell  Chaplin.  To  my  brothers 
’William,  Clement,  &  Daniell  (? Samuel)  £100  apeece.  The  remainder  to  be  divided  among  the  children 
of  my  brother  William.  Executors — my  wife  &  my  brother,  William  Chaplyn.  Witnesses — Francis 
Collman,  Samuel  Dale,  John  Raynolds.  Proved  Sept.  19th  1655  by  William  Chaplyn,  Mary  Chaplyn 
renouncing.  P.C.C.  197,  Aylett. 


(Mill  of  ffitilliam  Chaplin,  1654. 

April  22nd  1654.  William  Chaplin  of  Hitcham,  yeoman.  To  my  eldest  son  William,  land  called 
Bloxall  in  Hitcham,  worth  £300  or  better,  in  fulfillment  of  the  Covenant  made  with  my  brother, 
Mr.  Edmund  Humfrey  on  the  marriage  of  my  said  son  William  to  his  daughter.  William  to  pay 
to  John  my  son  £50,  to  Clement  my  son  £100,  &  to  Samuel  my  son  £100.  To  William  my 

horsmill,  with  my  best  framed  table.  To  Ann  Kendale  my  daughter  20s  for  a  ring,  &  the  same 
to  each  daughter  in  law  living  at  my  decease,  except  the  one  to  whom  my  wife  shall  give  hers. 
To  Richard  my  son,  lands  at  Seamer  &  Whatfield  called  Chappellfeilde,  Chappell  land,  or  Chappell 
Pightells,  &  a  piece  of  land  late  Edmund  Chaplin’s.  To  the  said  Richard  5s  in  money.  To 
Samuel  Chaplin  my  son  the  tenement  called  Stonnfeilde  in  Hitcham.  To  Katherine  my  wife  the 
enjoyment  of  one-third  of  my  freehold  lands  for  life.  To  the  poor  of  Hitcham  40s.  Residue  to 
Katherine  my  wife,  whom  I  make  executrix,  being  now  about  65  years  of  age.  Witnesses — William 
Evered,  William  Munninges.  Proved  March  2nd  1656.  P.C.C.  94,  Ruthen. 


(Mill  of  Clement  Chaplin,  1656. 

August  16th  1656.  Clement  Chaplaine  of  Thetford  co.  Norfolk,  clarke,  sicke.  To  Sarah 
my  loving  wife  all  my  houses  &  lands  lying  &  being  in  Harford  &  Weathersfeild  in  New  England, 
also  all  my  moveable  goods  chattels,  debts  or  whatsoever  is  mine  in  right  of  law,  or  which  I  have 
or  ought  to  have  in  New  England,  or  which  are  now  or  shall  happen  to  be  uppon  the  seas  at  the 
tyme  of  my  death,  also  all  my  goods  in  England.  I  appoint  my  wife  Sarah  Chaplaine  to  be  my 
executrix,  &  my  loving  brother  Thomas  Chaplaine  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds  in  Ould  England  '&  my 
kinsman  Mr.  William  Clarke  of  Rocksbury  in  New  England  to  be  supervisors  of  my  will.  Witnesses, 
Elizabeth  Garnham  ;  her  mark,  John  Spinck.  Proved  Sept.  23rd  1656  by  Sarah  Chaplin. 

P.C.C.  332,  Berkeley. 

P 


106 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


(©illiant  Glhapljm,  1657. 

July  22nd  1657.  William  Chaplyn  of  Barnarde  Inne,  gentleman.  My  executors  to  purchase 
out  of  the  estate  left  to  me  by  my  brother  Thomas  Chaplyn,  deceased,  lands  sufficient  to  bring 
in  £45  per  annum  to  the  use  of  Mary,  wife  of  the  late  Thomas  Chaplyn,  for  life,  &  afterwards 
to  the  use  of  Thomas  &  William,  two  of  the  sons  of  Samuell  Chaplyn,  my  brother.  My  executors 
to  put  out  my  son  Richard  to  some  trade  or  calling,  &  to  make  up  to  my  daughters,  Elizabeth, 
Susan  and  Ann  such  monies  as  my  father  Humphrey  &  my  said  brother  Thomas  have  respectively 
given  them  to  the  amount  of  £200  each.  To  Richard  Chaplin  all  my  lands  in  Seamer,  Whatfield 
&  Nedging  at  the  age  of  21,  &  the  legacies  left  by  my  brother  Thomas  on  condition  that  he 
permits  my  executors  to  take  £200  worth  of  timber  &c.,  &c.,  from  off  the  said  lands  in  case  my 
estate  falls  short.  My  executors  to  sell  a  tenement  in  Bildeston.  Whereas  my  wife  was  admitted 
to  a  tenement  &  certain  lands  in  Elmsett  upon  the  condition  of  paying  £20  a  year  to  Dennys 
Headley  for  life,  &c.,  &c.,  &  whereas  I  accepted  the  same  for  £100  as  part  of  my  wife’s  portion 
&  have  paid  the  £20  for  18  years,  I  desire  her  to  surrender  the  same  to  my  son,  William  &  his 
heirs  on  condition  that  he  gives  an  acquittance  to  my  executors,  I  having  spent  £100  in  putting 
him  apprentice  &  £40  otherwise,  which  is  far  more  than  his  share  of  my  brother  Thomas’s  will. 
To  Richard  the  tenement  called  Bloxhall,  in  Hitcham.  To  the  poor  of  Seamer  20s.  Executors, 
my  wife  Elizabeth,  &  William  Hamby,  gent,  my  brother  in  law,  to  whom  £5.  Proved  Dec.  1st 
1657  by  Elizabeth  Chaplyn,  power  reserved  to  William  Hamby.  P.C.C.  476,  Ruthen. 


Mill  of  ffiiinutnii  (tthaplin,  1660. 

June  29,  1660.  Edmund  Chaplin  of  Semer,  yeoman.  Barbary  my  wife  shall  enjoy  her 
joyntures  in  Bulmer  in  Essex  as  settled,  during  her  life  &  at  her  death  I  give  the  said  lands, 
&  others  in  Bulmer  to  William  Chaplin,  my  eldest  son.  To  Richard  Chaplin  my  son,  a  meadow 
in  Bildeston  called  Pond  Meadow,  two  tenements,  &c.  To  Edmund  Chaplin  my  son  a  field  called 
Boxteds  in  Whatfield,  Carsy,  &c.,  &  my  will  is  he  shall  pay  10s  a  year  for  his  proportion  of  the 
Lord’s  rent.  To  Joseph  my  sonne,  that  other  field,  part  of  Boxteds,  that  lies  next  to  Hadleigh 
&  also  a  meadowe  that  is  sown  with  oats,  he  paying  7s  yearly  for  his  proportion  of  the  Lord’s 
Rent.  To  Thomas  my  son  all  my  land  that  lies  in  Caughton  Common  in  Semer.  To  Anne  my 
daughter  £40.  To  Deborah  my  daughter  a  tenement  in  Bildeston  wherein  one  Hogger  &  Widow 
Bumstead  dwelleth,  also  a  piece  of  land  called  Woodhouse  Yard.  To  the  aforesaid  Anne  £5  more. 
All  the  rest  to  Barbery,  my  wife.  [No  witnesses  or  probate  clause,  but  proved  in  1660.] 

Arch.  Sudb.  Reg.,  1660,  fo.  66 


Mill  of  John  Glhapljm,  1665. 

Oct.  30,  1665.  John  Chaplyn  of  the  parish  of  St.  Mildred  in  the  Poultry,  haberdasher  of 
small  wares.  My  estate  to  be  divided  into  three  parts,  of  which  I  give  one  part  to  my  deere 
&  louing  wife  Elizabeth,  one  part  equally  among  my  children  living  at  my  decease,  &  the  remaining 
third  also  to  my  children.  (Part  containing  the  name  of  his  nephew,  Richard  Chaplin,  deleted). 


CHAPLIN  OF  SEMER,  BURY,  ETC. 


107 


My  brother-in-law,  Thomas  Christie,  Gent,  executor,  to  whom  £10.  To  the  poore  of  Hitcham,  co. 
Suffolk,  where  I  received  my  first  breath,  50s.  Witnesses — Ivy  Vicaridge,  Simon  Orlin.  Probate 
granted  on  December  20th  1682,  to  Elizabeth  Chaplin,  widow  &  principal  legatee  of  John  Chaplin, 
formerly  of  the  Parish  of  St.  Mildred  in  the  Poultry,  but  who  died  in  the  Parish  of  St.  John  the 
Evangelist,  London,  Thomas  Christie  renouncing.  P.C.C.  146,  Cottle. 


flolill  of  (Elizabeth  Chaplin,  1693. 

Sept.  19th  1693.  Elizabeth  Chaplin  of  Ipswich,  widdow.  Messuages,  lands  &  hereditaments 
in  Elmsett,  Suffolk,  to  three  Grandchildren,  Ann,  wife  of  Mr.  Nicholas  Phillips,  John  Russell  & 
Richard  Russell,  upon  trust  to  sell  &  satisfy  mortgage  &  other  debts.  Mentions  late  deceased 
grandson  Ralph  Russell  who  by  his  will  gave  to  the  testatrix  £30  out  of  his  lands  lying  in  Wickham. 
To  the  said  John  Russell  lands,  tenements  &  hereditaments,  messuages  &  pastures  in  Boulge,  Suffolk, 
or  in  any  other  towne  or  townes  there  near  adjoining  to  which  Testatrix  was  admitted  in  or  about 
the  year  1687  by  virtue  of  the  last  will  &  testament  of  John  Alldred,  deceased.  Grandchild  Mary 
Poole  living  with  Testatrix.  Residue  to  granddaughter,  Margaret  Lelam.  Proved  January  24th 
1693.  Arch.  Sufi.  Reg.'  1693,  113,  467. 


®StilI  of  John  Chaplin,  1699. 

January  10th  1699.  John  Chaplin,  purser  on  board  the  ship  Panther,  bound  for  Borneo. 
Mentions  his  brothers  Thomas  Chaplin  and  James  Tooth;  nephew,  James  Tooth;  his  sisters,  Elizabeth 
Chaplin  and  Alice  Tooth ;  Aunt  Woodward  ;  cousin,  Henry  Southose,  &c.,  &c.  Proved  in  1701. 

P.C.C.  109,  Dyer. 


Mill  of  Ulidtarb  Chaplin,  1716. 

September  29th  1716.  Richard  Chaplin,  citizen  &  Haberdasher  of  London.  £10  to  my  servant 
Rachell  Starkey.  Remainder  to  my  loving  wife  Mary,  whom  I  appoint  my  executrix. 
Witnesses — Beadnell  Ward,  John  Stisted,  Thomas  Davies.  Proved-  July  30th  1717. 

P.C.C.  131,  Whitfield. 

P2 


108 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


JUmunistration  of  Thomas  Chaplin,  1719* 

January  1719.  Admon  of  the  goods  of  Thomas  Chaplin,  late  of  Bedford,  granted  to  James 
Tooth,  nephew,  Elizabeth  Chaplin,  and  Alice,  wife  of  James  Tooth.  P.C.C.  1719. 


(Mill  of  (Elizabeth;  Chaplin,  1724. 

January  8th  1724.  Elizabeth  Chaplin,  of  Mickleham,  co.  Surrey,  Spinster.  To  be  buried 
in  St.  Pauli’s  Chancell,  in  Bedford.  My  sister  Alice  Tooth,  widow  of  James  Tooth,  Esq.  My  nephew 
James  Booth.  “  All  fee  farm  rents,  &c.,  of  my  late  brother,  Mr.  Thomas  Chaplin.”  The  messuages 
which  1  purchased  at  Mickleham.  My  nephew  Richard  Tooth  (under  21),  Mrs.  Mary  Withers,  widow, 
my  cousin,  Mary  Kidd,  of  Bedford,  widow.  James  Tooth,  sole  executor.  Proved  March  3rd  1734. 

P.C.C.  46,  Ducie. 


Jlonuinental  Inscriptions  in  $htrstall  Church,  (Suffolk. 

(Arms  of  the  Clothworkers’  Company). 

“  Here  resteth  the  Body  of  /  Thos  Chaplyn  of  London  /  Clothworker  who  dyed  /  here  Aug  : 
19  :  1655,  aged  39  /  yeres,  leavinge  Mary  his  /  Wife  without  Issue  :  /  And  of  /  William  Chaplyn  /  Gent., 
his  eldest  Brother  /  &  Executor  who  alsoe/dyed  here  Aug:  3:  1657  /  Aged  50  Yeres,  leavinge  2/ 
Sonnes  &  3  Daughters  /  by  Elizabeth  his  second  Wife.” 

This  inscription  has  now  disappeared. 

Davy  MSS.,  Addl.  MSS.  19,104,  75  b. 


iflonumcntal  Inscriptions  in  <St.  (Stephen's  Church, 

(St.  JUbans,  S)erts. 

Without  the  Communion  Rails  on  a  marble  tablet,  against  the  South  wall  of  the  Chancel : — 

Arms. — Ermine,  on  a  chief  indented  Azure  three  gryphons’  heads  erased  Or ;  for  Chaplin. 

“  Near  to  this  place  lies  the  body  of  /  William  Chaplin  of  Seymour,  /  in  the  County  of 
Suffolk,  gent.,  who /departed  this  life  November /the  11th,  1719  in  the  53rd  year  of  his /age.  Also 
the  body  of  John  Pitt  /  son  of  Wentworth  George  Pitt  &  Katherine  his  wife,  who  departed  /  this 
life  26lh  of  April  1726,  aged  four  years  seven  months  and  two  /  days.” 

Also  a  stone  upon  the  floor,  with  these  arms  : — 

“  A  fess  cheeky  between  3  roundlets,  for  Pitt,  impaling  Ermine  on  a  chief  indented  3 
gryphons  heads  erased,”  for  Chaplin.  Crest. — On  a  wreath,  a  stork,  close. 

This  is  followed  by  an  inscription  to  the  memory  of  Joanna  Pitt,  wife  of  John  Pitt,  who 
died  March  11,  1721-2,  aged  61,  and  also  to  John  Pitt,  of  Ashford,  Somerset,  aide-de-camp  to  the 
Duke  of  Marlborough,  and  Governor  of  the  Bermudas,  &c.,  &c.,  who  died  June  20th  1750,  aged 
89.  On  the  same  stone  is  an  inscription  to  Mrs.  Joanna  Pitt,  who  died  June  22,  1777,  aged  79. 

Clutterbuck,  History  of  Herts. 


CHAPLIN  OF  SEMER,  BURY,  ETC. 


109 


Mill  of  (Militant  (Chaplin,  1606. 

July  30th  1666.  William  Chaplin  of  Chevington,  co.  Suffolk.  To  my  son  Thomas  the 
copyhold  land  called  Gelders  Hill  alias  Whiteway  Close  in  Chevington,  lately  purchased  of  John 
Siddall ;  also  all  that  my  messuage  &  tenement  called  by  the  name  of  the  Colledge  in  Chevington 
wherein  I  now  dwell,  &c.,  &c.,  lying  in  Chevington  &  Chedburgh,  after  the  decease  of  my  wife. 
To  my  son  William,  all  lands  in  Barrow  lately  purchased  of  Dr.  Gibson  Lucas,  my  executrix  to 
receive  the  rents  until  William  is  21.  To  my  daughter  Elizabeth  £250,  to  my  daughter  Mary  £200 
&  to  my  daughter  Margarett  £200,  at  their  ages  of  21  or  marriage.  To  my  wife  all  my  household 
stuffe,  &c.  To  the  poore  of  Chevington  40s.  To  my  loving  friend  Mr.  Samuel  Slater  £3.  My  wife 
to  be  executor.  Witnesses — Richard  Tarry,  Thomas  Smith,  mark,  Mary  How.  Proved  July  10th 
1667.  Arch.  Sudb.  Reg.  1667,  fo.  207. 


®tll  of  TEhomas  (Chaplin,  1672. 

April  24th  1672.  Thomas  Chaplin  of  Bury  St.  Edmund’s,  gent,  being  aged.  To  Thomas 
Chaplin  my  grandchild,  the  eldest  sonne  of  my  sonn  William,  deceased,  all  my  messuage,  tenements 
&c.  at  Wyverston,  co.  Suff.,  after  the  decease  of  Elizabeth  my  well  beloved  wife,  also  my 
house,  orchard  &  meadow  lying  neare  the  Northgate  in  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  also  £50  at  21.  To 
William  Chaplin,  my  grandchild,  the  youngest  son  of  my  sonne  William,  deceased,  all  those  my 
houses  in  the  Cooke  Rowe  &  Whiting  Streete  in  Bury  St.  Edmunds  which  I  bought  of  Robert 
Ignes,  my  father  in  law&  Charles  Candeler,  after  the  decease  of  Elizabeth  my  wife.  Whereas  Robert 
Whiteing  my  son-in-lawe  is  bound  to  pay  £5  a  year  to  me  for  life,  none  of  which  is  yet  paid,  my 

grandchild  William  Chaplin  to  have  all  benefit  under  it.  To  him  also  £50  at  21.  To  the  three 

daughters  of  my  son  William,  deceased  £10  apeice.  To  the  three  children  that  my  daughter 
Sparrow  left,  £10  apeice.  Whereas  there  is  a  debt  owing  to  me  from  Jeremy  Houchin,  late  in 

New  England,  as  soon  as  it  is  collected,  £60  to  be  divided  among  the  six  children  my  daughter 

Shepherd  left  behind  her.  To  Abigail  Whiteing  my  daughter  £5.  To  Mary  Gurney  my  servant 
£40.  All  the  rest  to  my  wife  Elizabethe,  sole  executrix.  Witnesses— Ann  Stannard,  J.  Stannard. 
Proved  November  25th  1672.  Arch.  Sudb.  Reg.  1672,  fo.  349. 


S&till  of  TEhomas  (Chaplin,  1685. 

Dec1  10,  1685.  Thomas  Chaplin  of  Chevington,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.  To  Margaret,  my  wife, 
my  messuage  at  Wyverston.  To  Thomas,  son  of  my  brother  John  Greene,  land  called  Gilders 
Hill  in  Chevington.  All  the  rest  to  my  wife,  who  is  to  be  executor.  Witnesses — Samuel 
Oxborough,  Edward  Shawe,  James  Oxborough.  Proved  February  3rd  1685. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Reg.  1685,  fo.  198. 


110 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Cljapltn  of  Joiner,  Set. 


Clement  Thomas  Chaplin  ?  [The  Will  of 
Chaplin  William  Chaplin,  1575, mentions 

(see  Chap-  “  Thomas  Chaplin,  m\'  said  bro- 

LIN  of  ther,”  without  previous  or  other 

Acton.  reference  to  him.] 


- , - 

William  Chaplin,  of  Tarnes  Farm,  Long  Melford,= 
co.  Suff.  Held  messuage  called  Lyons  in  What- 
field  jointly  with  his  son  Edmund  (Semer  Manor 
Rolls).  Will.  P.C.C.  3  Holney.  15  Nov.  1575; 
proved  25  Jan.  1577-8. 


(1)  .  .  .;  (2)  after  1567, 
Joan  Froste,  widow  of 
JohnGreengrass,of  Mel- 
ford.  Bur.  at  Melford 
9  June  1575. 


- 1 

Joan, 
wife  of 

Ballard. 


- 1 

Alice, 
under 
24  in 
1575. 


Edmund  Chaplin,  of  Lind-^Martba,  da.  of  William  Chaplin,  of  Semer, =j=(l)  Agnes  .  .  .  ,  bur.  at  Semer  26  Sept.  1602,  and  (2) 


sey,  co.  Suff.,  clothier,  aged 
24  in  1578.  Will,  P.C.C. 
Parker,  6  Oct.  1618  ;  proved 
8  Feb.  1618-19. 


John  Kinge,'of 
Melford, atLong 
Melford, 30  June 
1578. 


co.  Suff.,  farmer  and  bailiff 
of  the  manor  of  Semer.  Bur 
there  15  Oct.  1629. 


Edmund  Chaplin,  bapt.  at; 
Long  Melford  1581-2.  Adm. 
to  Gray’s  Inn  21  April  1600. 
In  1603  bought  Manor  of 
Lindsey,  co.  Suff.  Died  10 
July  1618.  Will,  P.C.C.  40 
Evelyn,  3  July  1618;  pr. 
10  April  1641. 


:Ann,da.of  Thos. 
lies, of  Hammer¬ 
smith,  co.  Mid., 
gent.  She  re¬ 
mar.  John  Buck- 
nail, of  Lincoln’s 
Inn  and  Peter¬ 
borough,  Esq. 


- rn - 

Martha, 
wife  of 
Thomas 
Brian. 

Elizabeth, 
bapt.  at 
Lindsey 
1587. 


Anne,  da.  of  Andrew  Hobart,  of  Lindsey,  and  widow 
of  (1)  .  .  .  Frostand(2)  .  .  .  Esty  (Blois  MS.).  Will, 
Archd.  Sudb.  9  Colman,  6  Jan.  1629 ;  proved  6  May 
1631.  Bur.  at  Semer  4  March  1630-1. 


Audrey,  bapt. 
at  Lindsey,  Jan. 
1589-90;  wife 
of  John  Win- 
coll,  of  Wald- 
ingfield,  by 
whom  issue. 


I  I  I  I 

Edmund  Chaplin,  aged  9  William, 
in  1618.  Obtained  ouster-  living  1618. 
lemain  of  Manor  of  Lind¬ 
sey,  9  Car.  I ;  of  Peter-  Ursula, 
borough,  gent.,  in  1630;  living  1618. 
living  1640.  The  manor 
sold  to  John  Bucknall,  Elizabeth, 
Esq.,  1636.  living  1618. 


Richard  Chaplin, - 
of  Semer,  bap.  19 
Feb.  1587-8 ;  bur. 
16  Oct.  1645.  For 
Will  see  “  Chan. 
Proc.before  1714. 
Bridges  407. 
Chaplyn  v.  Chap- 
lyn.”  Ob.  s.p. 


=Anne 
Smith,  at 
Semer,  6 
Aug.  1612. 
She  remar. 
Richard 
Sy day and 
died  in 
1665. 


- 1 - - 

Agnes,  bapt.  at 
Semer  20  May 
1582;  mar.  John 
Barrett,  of 
Stratford,  30 
December  1602. 
“  Her  father 
gave  her  £300” 
(Candler) . 


- ( - 

Martha,  bapt.  at  Semer 
4  Feb.  1583-4 ;  mar. 
Robert  Park  at  Semer 
9  Feb.  1601-2.  “  Her 

father  gave  her  £300  ” 

(  Candler) .  I  n  1 630  Ro¬ 
bert  Park  went  to  New 
England,  where  his  de¬ 
scendants  still  survive. 


- 1 

Jane,  bapt.  at 
Semer  11  March 
1588-9 ;  married 
Geoffry  Cremer 
alias  Skrvme, 
of  Snettisham, 
co.  Norfolk,  at 
Semer,  13  Nov. 
1606. 


- ! - - 

Clement  Chaplin,  a  chand¬ 
ler  in  Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
bap.  at  Semer  5  June  1593. 
In  1635  went  to  New  Eng¬ 
land  and  became  a  minister 
there.  Died  at  Thetford,  co. 
Norf.  Will,  P.C.C.  332  Ber- 
keley,  16  Aug.  1656  ;  pr.  23 
Sept.  1656.  Ob.  s.p. 


=Sarah, 
da.&  cok. 
of  Robert 
Ignes  als. 
Hynes  of 
Bury,  at 
llush- 
brooke, 
1618. 


Mary, 
bap.  a'. 
Semer 
4  Dec. 
1594. 


- 1 

Dorothy, 
bap.  at 
Semer 
10  June 
1596. 


1  of  these  2  m.  Rob. 
Smith,  of  Semer, 
her  father  giving 
her  £200  (Candler). 


William  Chaplin,  of  Blaxhall, 
Hitcham,  co.  Suff.  Bapt.  at 
Semer  10  Jan.  1585-6 ;  bur. 
there  18  Dec.  1656.  Will, 
P.C.C.  94  Ruthen,  22  April 
1654;  pr.  2  March  1656-7. 


I - 1 - 

Anne,  wife  of  Jonathan, 

.  .  .  Kendale,  by  bap.  1629, 
whom  issue,  a  bur.  1639. 
son  and  a 
daughter. 


I - 

Clement  Chaplin,  bap. 
26  Nov.  1618;  living 
1654.  “  A  tradesman  in 
London.” 


:  Katherine 

. . j 

“aged 
about  65  ” 
in  1654. 


Thomas  Chaplin. 

I 

(See  Chaplin  of 
Bcjry  St. 
Edmunds). 


Robert  Chaplin. 

T 

-T- 

(See  Chaplin 
of  Lincoln¬ 
shire). 


- ! - - — 

Samuel  Chaplin, 
bap.  at  Semer  26 
April  1590;  bur. 

7  August  same 
year. 


1 


Edmund  Chaplin,  of  Semer, : 
bap.  3  Feb.  1599-1600; 
bur.  1  July  1660.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  29  June  1660  ; 
proved  same  year. 


n - 

Richard,  bap. 
8  Oct.  1637. 

Edmund,  bap. 
2  Sept.  1641. 


=  Barbera 

. » 

buried  at 
Semer  14 
August 
1 668. 


Joseph  Chap¬ 
lin,  of  Bildes- 
ton,  bap. 

4  June  1643; 
living  1676. 


Anne,  bap. 

15  Dec.  1639. 

Deborah,  bap. 
5  Oct.  1648. 


Thomas  Chaplin,  of  Had- 
leigh,  tallow-chandler, 
bap.  3  Aug.  1645 ;  mar. 
Elizabeth,  da.  of  Oliver 
Polley,  of  Melford. 


Samuel  Chaplin,  “  a  captain,”  bap.  at  Hitcham  12  Sept.  1622.  His  sons 
Thomas  and  William  mentioned  inWill  of  brother  Thomas.  Perhaps  the 
same  as  “Samuel  Chaplin,  of  St.  Giles’,  Cripplegate,  widower,”  who 
mar.  Hester  Wells,  widow,  in  1667.  Admou.  P.C.C.  16  July  1668,  to 
widow,  Hester  Chaplin. 


- 1 - 

William  Chaplin,  of  Had- 
leigh,  woollen  weaver,  bap. 
15  Dec.  1635.  Will  dated 
14  Feb.  1673-4,  proved 
in  Registry  of  “  ye  Deacon 
of  Booking,  co.  Essex.” 
Chan.  Proc.  before  1714. 
Bridges  460.  Chaplyn 
c.  Price. 


t 


CHAPLIN  OF  SEMER,  BURY 


ETC. 


Ill 


A 

L 


William  Chaplin,  of  Ips¬ 
wich  and  Barnards  Inn, 
E.C.,  Attorney.  Bap.  at 
Hitcham  21  Feb.  1610- 
11.  Will,  P.C.C.  476 
lluthen,  22  July  1657  ; 
proved  1  Dec.  1657. 
M.I.  at  Burstall,  co. 
Suff. 


(1)  .  .  .,  da.  of  Robert 
Hamby,  of  Ipswich. 

(2)  Elizabeth,  da.  of 
Edmund  Humfrey,  of 
Ipswich,  at  Akenham, 
17  Oct.  1637 ;  died 
1693.  Will,  Archd. 
Suff.,  1693. 


— I - - 

Richard  Chaplin,  or 
St.  Mary  Magdalen, 
London,  haber¬ 
dasher,  bap.  at  Hit¬ 
cham,  1  Feb.  1612- 
13 ;  died  c.  1669. 
Admon.de  bo:  non 
P.C.C.  30  Oct.  1701. 


William,  eld.  son,  dis¬ 
inherited;  diedbefox-e 
Feb. 1668.  (See “Chan. 
Proc.  before  1714, 
Hamilton  582, &  Chan. 
Depns.  before  1714, 
237-20.  Chaplyn  v. 
Chaplyn.”) 


=Susan. 


71  l  ' 

Elizabeth,  wife 
of  Bennet  Lea- 
lam,  of  Semer. 

Richard,  ob. 
May  1667,  aged 
19. 


- 1 - ; - 

Anne,  wife  of 
RalphRussell, 
of  Hasketon, 
who  d.  1676. 
She  remar. 
Thos.  Poole  or 
Pooley  1678. 


1 


Margaret, 
da.  of 
Francis 
Asty,  of 
Bury.  She 
remar. 
Wm.  Par- 
mee  1677. 


Thomas  Chaplin, — Mary  John  Chaplin,  of -pEliza- 


clothworker,  of 
London  ;  bap.  at 
Hitcham,  13  Feb. 
1615-16.  Will, 
P.C.C.  197  Aylett, 
8  Aug.  1655;  pr. 
19  Sept.  M.I.  at 
Burstall.  Ob.  s.p. 


Mott, 
of  Col¬ 
chester: 


London,  haber¬ 
dasher  ;  bap.  at 
Hitcham  240ct. 
1620.  Will, 
P.C.C.  146  Cot¬ 
tle,  30  Oct.  1665. 
Prob.  20  Dec. 
1682. 


Susan, 2d  wife 
of  John  Weld, 
of  St.  Law- 
rence  Jury, 
London, 
Draper,  in 
1672. 


- 1 - 

Margaret,  wife 
of  JohnThrale, 
to  whom  ad- 
mon.de bo:  non 
of  her  father’s 
goods  in  1701, 
P.C.C. 


1 


Richard  Chaplin,  =pMargaret, 


of  St.  Mary  Mag¬ 
dalen,  London. 
Admon.  P.C.C. 
14  Dec.  1686  to 
Margaret  Chap¬ 
lin,  widow. 


Smith,  (?) 
in  1672. 


William,  aged  2  in  1669,  ob. 
11  Nov.  1719.  M.I.  at  St. 
Stephen’s  Church,  St. 
Albans,  Herts. 


Joanna,  wife  of  John  Pitt,  of  Ashford, 
Somerset,  Govexmor  of  the  Bermudas, 
etc.,  etc.  Ob.  11  March  1721  -2,  aged  61. 
M.I.  at  St.  Stephen’s  Ch.,  St.  Albans. 


Richard  Chaplin,  of  London,  haber - Mary  New, 

dasher.  Will,  P.C.C.  131  Whitfield,  in  1712  (?). 
29  Sept.  1716;  prob.  30  July  1717. 

Ob.  s.p. 


beth 
Chris¬ 
tie,  of 
Bed¬ 
ford. 


- i - — - 

Thomas  Chaplin,  of — Ann  Gardner, 
Bedford.  Admon.  at  St.  Paul’s 
P.C.C.  Jan.  1719  to  Church,  Bed- 
Jas.  Tooth,  nephew,  ford,  1696. 
etc.  Ob.  s.p. 


- 1 

Alice, 
wife  of 
James 
Tooth, 
of 

Bed¬ 

ford, 

1693, 

by 

whom 

issue. 


- 1 - 

Elizabeth  Chaplin,  of 
Mickleham,  co.  Surrey. 
Will,  P.C.C.  46  Ducie, 
8  Jan.  1724;  prob.  3 
March  1734. 


John  Chaplin,  of  St.John  the=Anne,  da.  of  Humphrey  Hyde,  Esq.,  of  St. 
Evangelist,  London,  haber-  Anne’s,  Westminster,  1690.  Divorce  ob- 
dasher;  born  c.  1660.  Will,  tained  1694.  Admon.  Archd.  Midx.  6 
P.C.C.  109  Dyer,  10  Jan.  1699;  March  1697  to  Humphrey  Hyde,  father, 
proved  1701.  Ob.  s.p. 


lirtugm,  ^tsttatton  of  j5>uffolft,  1664. 


Bysshe’s  Visitation  of  Suffolk  (Heralds’  College,  D  22,  179  b).  No  Arms  recorded. 


William  Chaplin,  of  Seymore,  co.  Suff .=j=.  .  .  . 

r 

Thomas  ,  C.,  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  co.  Suff.,  gent.,=fEliz.,  da.  of  Robert  Ignis 
1664.  Entered  and  signed  his  pedigree  in  Visitation  alias  Hynes,  of  Bury  St. 
of  Suffolk  of  1664.  Edmunds. 


William  C.,  sonne^Eliz.,  da.  of  Robert  Crane,  of  Great  1.  Anne.  2.  Abigail, 

and  heire.  j  Coggeshall.  co.  Essex. 

I  I - , - | - 1 - 1 

Thomas,  1st  son.  William,  2nd  son.  1.  Elizabeth.  2.  Mary.  3.  Margaret. 


"Arms  to  Sr  Edward  Bysshe’s  Visitation  of  Suffolk.  ( Heralds’  College,  D  21,  p.  16.) 

“  Tho.  Chaplin  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds.” 

No  Arms  or  Crest  given.  Referred  to  London. 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  (Elizabeth  Chaplin,  1895 

Dec.  3rd  1695.  Elizabeth  Chaplin,  widow,  of  Chevington,  co.  Suffolk.  To  my  daughter 
Margaret  Underwood,  wife  of  Robert  Underwood  of  Chevington,  all  my  personal  estate  to  dispose 
of  according  to  her  discretion,  she  to  be  executrix.  Witnesses — Robert  Kempe,  John  Pratt,  John 
Nonn.  Proved  Dec.  11th  1699.  Arch.  Sudb.  Reg.,  1699,  fo.  412. 


Mill  of  Milliam  Chaplin,  1715. 

Novr  16th  1713.  William  Chaplin  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  gent.  To  be  buried  by  my  father 
&  mother  at  Chevington.  To  Mary  my  wife,  for  life,  my  messuage  called  the  Colledge,  &c.,  in 
Chevington  &  Chedburgh,  afterwards  to  my  eldest  son  William  &  his  heirs.  To  my  daughter 
Elizabeth,  an  annuity  of  £20.  To  Mary,  my  wife,  a  messuage  called  Ulgars,  (purchased  of  William 
King  &  Mr.  Bartholomew  Paman)  in  Depden  &  Wickhambrook,  for  life,  afterwards  to  my  youngest 
son  John  Chaplin  &  his  heirs.  To  my  daughter  Elizabeth  £10.  To  Mary  my  wife,  lands  called 
Barrow  Willows  &c.  in  Hargreave  &  Barrow,  for  life,  &  afterwards  to  my  eldest  daughter  Frances 
Chaplin  &  her  heirs.  To  Mary  also  my  lands  at  Felsham  called  Fenns,  for  life,  &  afterwards  to 
my  daughter  Mary  &  her  heirs  for  ever  &  I  request  my  wife  at  her  decease  to  give  to  my  daughter 
Alice  a  messuage  called  Fords  at  Coptford  in  Essex.  My  lands  called  Edwardstone  Priory  &  other 
lands  at  Edwardstone,  Great  &  Little  Waldingfield  &  Milden,  also  messuages  at  Great  Barton  & 
Westley  &  lands  at  Chevington,  co.  Suffolk,  &  at  Wilby  &  Eccles  in  Norfolk  to  be  sold  by  Mary, 
my  wife,  whom  I  appoint  my  sole  executor.  My  son  William  to  be  supervisor  of  my  will. 
Witnesses — John  Mills,  Robert  Nearch,  Thomas  Eagle.  Proved  February  25th  1713. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Reg.,  1713,  fo.  334. 


Mill  of  Milliam  Chaplin,  1785. 

Sept.  20th  ,1765.  William  Chaplin  of  Bury  St.  Edmund’s,  Gent.  I  give  to  Mary  my  loving 
&  wellbeloved  wife  &  her  heirs  &  assigns  for  ever  all  my  dwelling  house  in  the  Westgate  Street, 
Bury  St.  Edmunds,  with  the  stable  opening  into  Fryers  Lane,  &  other  the  outhouses,  gardens  & 
appurtenances  thereto  now  in  my  own  occupation,  &  all  other  real  estate  wherein  I  may  have 
any  interest  or  claim.  I  appoint  the  said  Mary  my  wife  sole  executrix,  to  whom  also  I  give  all 
&  whatsoever  small  personal  effects  I  may  leave  at  my  decease,  intending  her  sole  legatee  thereof. 
Witnesses — Robert  Hayward,  Honoria  Hayward,  Susan  Bucke.  Proved  October  28th  1771. 

Arch.  Subd. 


^flonumcnt  at  Clubington. 

“  A  monument  near  the  Porch  in  the  Churchyard  for  W[illiamJ  Chaplin  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
gent,  died  December  1713,”  Coat  of  Arms: — Ermine,  on  a  chief  indented,  three  griffons’  heads 
erased.  Crest.— A  griffon’s  head,  erased.”  Davy  MSS.  Acldl.  MS.,  19,017. 


CHAPLIN  OF  SUMER,  BURY,  ETC. 


113 


An  engrossed  pedigree  in  the  possession  of  Mr.  F.  S.  Chaplin  has  evidently  been  compiled 
from  the  following  original  letter,  also  belonging  to  him,  supplemented  by  the  register  referred 
to  hereafter : — 


“  Be  it  remembered  that  in  the  year  1650  and  some  time  before  William  Chaplin,  gent., 
lived  at  a  house  called  Blocks-hall  in  ye  parish  of  Hitcham  in  ye  County  of  Suff.  This  W“ 
had  five  brothers,  viz., 

•-  Robert,  Thomas,  Richard,  Edrnd,  Clement. 


Robert  had  issue — 2  sons,  viz.,  Robert  &  Francis ;  both  lived  &  traded  in  London,  ye  latter 
was  Lord  Mayor  of  ye  sd.  City  and  then  knighted — 3  daughters  vizt.  Ann,  Susan  &  Elizabeth ; 
the  two  first  died  single,  the  last  was  married  to  Adamson  by  whom  she  had  a  son  &  a 
daughter. 


Thomas  who  lived  and  dyed  at  Bury  S4  Edind  &  was  twice  Alderman  of  ye  said 
Burrough  &  once  member  of  parliament  for  ye  sd.  Burrough  had  issue  2  sons  vizt. 

William  who  had  issue  Thomas  who  died  without  issue. 

&  William - had  Wm,  Elizabeth,  John,  Mary 


Thomas  had  also  3 


Clement  had  no  issue, 
daughters  vizt. 

Elizabeth 

Anne  married  to 

Abigal  | 


&  Margaret. 


Sparrow. 

Shepherd. 

Whiting. 


Richard  who  had  issue,  Richard  &  others. 


Edm'1  who  had  issue  but  not  known  to  me. 


Clement  died  without  issue. 

The  said  William  Chaplin  of  Blockshall  aforesd  had  five  sons  and  one  daughter  vizt. 

William,  Richard,  John,  Clement,  Samuel,  &  Elizabeth. 

W111  left  issue  &  dyed  at  Seamer  in  Suff.  Richard,  John  &  Clement  were  all  traders  in 
London  and  some  of  them  left  issue.  Samuel  was  a  cap4.  Elizabeth  married  to  one  Kendall 
by  whom  she  had  a  son  &  one  daughter. 

Novr  ye  20th  1717. 

Co :  Chaplin. 

I  have  above  written  sent  yu  a  Scedule  of  ye  pedigree  of  ye  family  of  ye  Chaplins  so 
far  as  I  am  able  and  can  remember.  I  do  not  pretend  to  set  down  ye  names  of  ye  Brothers 
according  to  their  seniority  for  it  is  wholly  unknown  to  me  but  that  there  were  such  brothers 
&  brother’s  children  I  am  well  assured  for  they  have  been  known  to  me,  except  Robert  Chaplin 
first  mentioned  who  was  dead  before  I  was  borne,  if  you  have  drawn  my  bill  give  it  to  my 
man,  I  have  ordered  him  to  discharge  it. 

Yor  Serv4  Jo.  Sparrow.” 


Q 


114 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Cfjapltn  of  35  tup. 


Thomas  Chaplin,  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  linen  draper,  bapt.  Semer,-]- Elizabeth,  da.  and  coh. 


21  Oct.  1591  ;  Alderman  and  J.P. ;  M.P.  for  Bury,  1658/9,  and  a 
member  of  the  Suffolk  Committee  for  the  Trial  of  Scandalous 
Ministers.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  349  Franklin,  24  April  1672  ;  proved 
25  Nov.  1672. 


if  Robert  Ignes  alias 
Hynes,  of  Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds,  goldsmith. 


William  Chaplin,  of  the  College,1 
Chevington,  mercer  and  Alderman 
of  Bury  St.  Edmunds.  Will, 
Archd.  Sudb.,  207  Edgar,  30  July 
1666;  proved  10  July  1667.  Bur. 
at  Chevington,  19  June  1667. 


= Elizabeth,  da.  of  Robert 
Crane,  of  Coggeshall,  Es¬ 
sex.  Will,  Archd.  Sudb., 
412  Coe,  3  Dec.  1695 ; 
pr.  11  Dec.  1699.  Bur.  at 
Chevington,  21  Oct.  1699. 


- 1 - 

Clement 

Chaplin. 


L- 


Elizabeth,  wife 
of  Samuel  Spar¬ 
row,  of  Reed, 
co.  Suffolk. 


Anne,  wife  of 
Jasper  Shep¬ 
herd,  Aider- 
man  of  Bury. 


Abigail,  wife  of 
Robert  Whiteing, 
of  Ipswich.  (Cand¬ 
ler  says  Norjolk.) 


Thomas  Chaplin,  of  Chev-^Mar- 
ington,  gent.  Will,  Archd.  garet. 
Sudb.  ,198  Goodwyn,10  Dec. 

1685 ;  proved  3  Feb.  1685-6. 

Bur.  at  Chevington,  16 Dec. 

1685.  Ob.  s.p. 


William  Chaplin,  of  Bury,  gent., =i=Mary,  da.  of 


attorney,  steward  of  Manors  of 
Knettishall  and  Hopton,  1708. 
Will,  Archd.  Sudb.,  16  Nov. 1713; 
proved  25  Feb.  1713/4.  Bur. 
at  Chevington,  28  Dec.  1713. 


John  Scarlett, 
gent.,  of  Col¬ 
chester  :  died 
17  April  1753; 
bur.  at  Nay- 
i  land. 


- ! - 

Margaret,  bapt.  Che¬ 
vington,  10  Dec.1663; 
wife  of  Robert  Un¬ 
derwood,  of  Chev¬ 
ington,  by  whom 
issue. 


- , - 

Mary,  bur. 
at  Chev¬ 
ington,  18 
May  1672, 
unmar¬ 
ried. 


Elizabeth, 
wife  of  John 
Green,  of 
Bury,  Attor¬ 
ney-at-law, 
by  whom 
issue. 


! - r 

Mary,  da.  of  Richard  John  Chaplin,  Francis,  wife  of 
Piper,  of  Ridgwell  Hall,  of  Sudbury,  William  Hol- 
co.  Essex,  by  Mary,  his  born  11  Oct.  man,  of  Sud- 
wife,  da.  of  Henry  Chap-  1699;  ob.  14  bury,  co.  Suff.; 
lin, of  Ridgwell  (seep. 94);  Aug.  1744;  ob.  5  Aug.  1770; 
mar.  22  Sep.  1720 ;  ob.  bur.  Cheving-  bur.  at  Hal- 
1774  ;  bur.  at  Ridgwell.  ton,  20  Aug.  stead. 


- ! - ! - 

Eliza-  Mary,  wife  of 
beth,  ThomasFairfax,of 
unmar-  London,  gent. ; 
ried.  diedAug.1760,  “of 
sudden  dropping 
down  speechless 
at  once.” 


~n 

Thomas. 


Scarlett. 

died  in 
their 
youth. 


William  Chaplin,  = 
of  Bury,  attorney, 
bapt.  Chevington, 
25  June  1693;  died 
14  July  1771 ;  bur. 
at  Chevington. 


Alice,  wife  of 
Henry  Sidey, 
of  Dedham, 
co.  Essex ;  ob. 
1764 ;  bur.  at 
Nay  land. 


L 


I - - - - 1 

Richard  Chaplin,  of  Sudbury,  wine  merchant;  ob.  6  April  1797,^=  Martha,  da.  of  Thomas  Railing,  of  Clare,  tanner,  mar.  William,  bur.  at 

at  Writtle,  co.  Essex,  in  1744  ;  ob.  12  May  1764  ;  Chevington, 
bur.  Sudbury.  16  May  1723. 


aged  75;  bur.  at  Ridgwell.  Will,  P.C.C.  299  Exeter,  2  Sept. 
1793  ;  proved  8  May  1797 


Rich¬ 
ard, 
born 
1746  ; 
died 
1747. 


- 1 - 

Richard, 
born  23 
Nov. 1747; 
died  1772: 
bur.  at 
Clare. 


- ! - 

Samuel  Chaplin, 
of  Watford,  Herts, 
born  21  Jan. 1752; 
died  20  Dec.  1801; 
bur.  at  Ridgwell, 
29  Dec. 


— I - 

William  Chap — Elizabeth,  da.  of 
lin,  of  Sudbury,  F.  G.  Smith,  of 


Mary, 

born 

1745: 

diedl765; 

bur.  at 

Sudbury. 


John  Chaplin,  of  Ann,  da.  of  Jos- 


born  30  April 
1753;  died  20 
July  1829,  s.p. ; 
bur.at  Ridgwell. 


Navland,  in  1803; 
died  31  Mar. 1829, 
aged  52 ;  bur.  at 
Ridgwell. 


Braintree,  born  0 
June  1756;  died  14 
June  1828,  aged  72; 
bur.  at  Ridgwell. 
Will,  Com.  Ct.,  Essex 
&  Herts,  288  Bragg. 


Da.  died 

Richard  Piper, 

Samuel. 

in  in¬ 

born  1788;  died 

born 

fancy, 

1797,  aged  9; 

1789; 

1787. 

bur.  at  Brain¬ 

died 

tree. 

1793. 

T 


WilliamChaplin,  of  Greats  Ann,  eldest  da.  of  Wil- 


Town  Farm,  Ridgwell, 
born  1790  ;  died  30  Sept. 
1840;  bur.  at  Ridgwell. 
Will,  Com.  Ct.,  Essex  and 
Herts,  790  Brown. 


A 


liam  Patten,  of  Peb- 
marsh,  in  1818.  She 
remar.  Rich.  Hutton,  of 
Toppesfield  Hall,&died 
12  Dec.  1866,  aged  66. 


Mary,  born  1793 ; 
wife  of  Robert 
Sach,  of  Brad- 
well,  Essex  in 
1815. 


eph  Joscelyne, 
of  Braintree, 
baker,  1785  ; 
bur.  at  Ridg¬ 
well,  19  April 
1833,  aged  71. 


- 1 

Mart  ha, 

born 

18  May 

1749; 

died 

15  Mar. 

1750. 


Anne,  born  1791  ;  wife 
of  James  Clements,  of 
Panfield  Hall,  1817; 
died  1819,  leaving  one 
da.,  Elizabeth. 


CHAPLIN  OF  SKMER,  BURY,  ETC. 


115 


r 

Ann, 

- r 

William, 

- T  . 

William, 

T 

Emma, 

- T 

John, 

TT 

Miriam, 

- 1 

Emma, 

r  -L 

John  Chaplin,  of  Lex-=pSarah,  2d  da. 

n - 

Eliza- 

- 1 

Hephzibah, 

bora 

bom  and 

bom 

bom 

bom 

born 

born 

den,  co.  Essex,  bom 

of  John  Lam- 

beth, 

born  1798  ; 

1819; 

died 

1824; 

and 

1825; 

1834  ; 

and 

Dec.  1794;  Mavor  of 

bert,  of  Ban- 

born 

wife  of  Wil- 

died 

1821. 

died 

died 

died 

died 

died, 

Colchester,  1837;  died 

field  Hall,  in 

1796; 

liam  Ely,  of 

1830. 

1853. 

1827. 

1855. 

1840. 

1839. 

2  July  1858  ;  bur.  at 
Lexden. 

1817;  died 

20  Oct.  1861. 

died 

1803. 

Cressing. 

bom 

1829. 


Martha, 

Walter  =f=  Ann 

Ann,  born 

Ellen,  born 

Dean, 

Julia,  born 

Caroline  Eis-- 

—  Richard 

=Frances- 

bom 

born 

Play¬ 

1831;  wife 

1832;  2nd 

born 

1837;  wife 

dell,  who  died 

Piper 

Mary 

1822  ; 

1828; 

fair. 

of  Charles 

wife  of 

1835  ; 

of  William 

1871,  leaving 

Chaplin, 

Exall, 

wife  of 

died 

Darby,  of 

Hallowes 

living 

Brown,  who 

1  da., -Agnes 

bom 

mar. 

Hal- 

1905, at 

Berwick 

Gayfer ; 

1910. 

went  to 

Selina,  wife 

22  Feb. 

1873. 

lowes 

Mel¬ 

Hall,  Top- 

died  1904. 

SouthAfrica. 

of  Jas.  Bun¬ 

1818; 

Gayfer, 

bourne. 

pesfield. 

ting. 

died 

died 

Aus¬ 

27  Dec. 

1856. 

tralia. 

1883. 

Horace 


Elizabeth  John  Lam-=f=Elizabeth 


T 


Chaplin,  of  Ann,  bom  berb  Chap- 
Stony  1819,  wife  linofWake- 

Stratford,  of  George  field,  born 
co.  Bucks;  Lambert;  1825; living 
living  1910.  died  1865.  1910. 


Ann  Mit¬ 
chell,  of 
London  ; 
died  1906. 


T- 1 - m 

Ellen,  born  Samuel  C  hap- =f=  Fanny,  da.  Sarah,  born  1821;  Mary,  born  1823; 
1827 ;  wife  lin,  of  Col-  I  of  Thos.  died  1852,  unmar-  died  1825. 


of  George 
Ward,  of 
West  Berg- 
liolt  Hall;  1907. 
died  1901. 


Chester,  born 
1829  ;  Mayor, 
1882  ;  died 


Wilcox,  of  ried. 

Argyll  — 

Street, Lon-  Frances  Caroline, 
don  ;  died  born  1834  ;  died 
1909.  1851. 


Martha, born  1831; 
died  1832. 


I - 1 - - I - — I - 1 - 

Francis  Ca’’-  John  Ethelind  Sarah  Jes-  Edward  Mit-=j=Martha 

oline,  born  Henry,  Elizabeth,  sie,  bom  &  chell  Chaplin, 

1856;  died  born  born  1861.  died  1863.  born  1867. 

1890,  unm.  1859. 


Sidney  Lambert  Frank  Samuel  Chaplin,  of  =f=Ellen  Ger- 
May  Chaplin,  born  Gray’s  Inn,  E.C.,  and  Enfield,  trade  Ma- 

Dawson.  1871;  died  1872.  Solicitor;  born  10  Sept.  1861.  cey,  1892. 


Frances  Mary, 
born  1901. 


Ruth  Joscelyn, 
bom  1902. 


Dorothy  Gertrude, 
born  1893. 


Frank  Douglas, 
bom  1894. 


Margaret  Joyce, 
born  1897. 


The  compilation  of  the  pedigree  on  this  page  has  been  rendered  an  easy  task  by  the 
existence  of  a  family  register  book,  commenced  by  Richard  Chaplin,  of  Sudbury,  in  1744,  in 
which  year  also  his  house  in  St.  Peter’s  Parish  was  set  apart  for  the  religious  worship  of 
Protestant  Dissenters.  It  has  been  carefully  kept  up  to  the  present  day  and  contains  many 
interesting  entries,  of  which  one  only  can  be  given  here : — 

“  March  15th  1749  (50).  Died  my  dear  little  girl  Martha  whom  it  pleased  God  to  take 
away  from  us  we  trust  to  himself  after  an  illness  of  about  3  months.  She  promised  to  be  a 
child  of  sweet  disposition  but  yet  it  pleased  the  Holy  God  to  order  it  so  that  she  had  a  very 
hard  death,  the  fruits  of  original  sin.  She  was  8  months  old.” 

The  original  is  now  in  the  possession  of  Mr.  J.  H.  Chaplin,  of  Wakefield. 


Q2 


Chaplin  of  <3rton. 


®ill  of  (Element  (Ehaplm,  1617. 

December  4th  1617.  Clement  Chaplyn  of  Seamer,  yeoman.  Has  before  given  his  household 
stuff  to  his  children.  Ellen  Cayle(?)  my  daughter.  Edmond  my  sonne.  Martha  Posford  my 
goddaughter.  Edward  Cayle(?)  my  son-in-law.  Edward,  Margaret,  John,  Thomas,  &  Martha  Cayle 
my  grand  children.  Barbery  Chaplin  my  grandchild  (under  21).  To  the  poor  of  Hitcham  20s.  All 
the  rest  of  my  goods  to  Thomas  Chaplin  my  son,  whom  I  make  executor.  Witnesses — William 
Chaplin,  John  Bryant.  Proved  February  11th  1621.  Arch.  Sudb.  Reg.  1621,  fo.  338. 


Hill  of  Thomas  ffihapljm,  1645. 

November  11th  1645.  Thomas  Chaplyn  of  Acton,  yeoman.  To  Mary,  my  wellbeloved  wife, 
in  full  satisfaction  of  her  Thirds  &  dower,  all  my  lands  in  Hitcham  &  Brettenham  for  life,  then 
to  Thomas  Chaplyn  my  eldest  son,  he  paying  to  Sarah  my  daughter  £40.  To  Joane  my  daughter 
two  peices  of  arable  land,  being  parcel  of  lands  late  purchased  of  one  Robert  Day,  lying  in 
Buckshall.  If  she  die  without  issue  the  said  lands  to  be  divided  between  Thamar  &  Sarah,  my 
daughters.  To  William  Chaplyn  my  son,  a  tenement  &  the  remainder  of  the  said  lands  at 
Buckshall,  he  paying  to  Thamar,  my  daughter,  now  wife  of  William  Roberson  £23,  to  Edmund 
Chaplyn  my  son  £12  within  four  years  &  to  Mary  my  wife  a  rent  charge  of  40s.  To  Martha  my 
daughter,  now  wife  of  Thomas  Chenery  of  Acton  yeoman  Is.  To  Mary  my  daughter,  now  wife  of  John 
Bray  10s.  To  Grace  my  daughter,  now  wife  of  Nicholas  Halls  Is,  &  to  Thamar  my  daughter,  wife  of 
Wm.  Roberson  Is.  To  Mary  my  wife  a  further  rent  charge  of  40s  payable  by  my  son  Edmund  out  of 
my  personal  estate.  To  Thomas  my  son  a  feather  bedd  with  bolster.  To  Mary  my  wife,  linnen, 
household  stuffe,  pewter,  brasse,  bedding,  &c.,  she  paying  to  Sarah  £3.  I  will  that  Mary  my  wife  shall 
have  the  parlor'in  the  house  wherein  I  now  live  &  the  little  Buttery  there,  with  free  lifetie  at  all 
times  of  ingresse,  egresse  &  regresse  for  as  long  as  Edmund  Chaplin  my  sonne  shall  live  there. 
To  the  poor  of  Acton  20s.  All  else  to  William  my  son,  sole  executor.  I  desire  Edmund  Chaplyn 
of  Preston  St.  Maries,  &  Bennett  Posford  of  Lynzy  my  brother-in-lawe  to  be  suprovisors  to  whom 
3s  each.  Witnesses — Jeffery  Fisher,  marke,  Oliver  Haylocke.  Proved  May  9th  1649. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Reg.  1649,  fo.  175. 


Hill  of  |]riscilla  (Ehaplin,  1680. 

Nov.  14,  1680.  Priscilla  Chaplin  of  Acton,  co.  Suffolk,  wife  of  Thomas  Chaplin.  My  father, 
Edward  Elliston,  clerke,  late  of  Acton,  deceased,  &  Grace,  my  mother.  Devise  of  7  acres  of  land 
at  Acton,  known  at  Rookwoods,  to  various  people,  after  the  death  of  Thomas  Chaplin,  her  husband, 
whom  she  appoints  executor.  Witnesses — John  Alton  (mark),  William  Parmenter  (mark).  Proved 
June  15th  1681.  Arch.  Sudb.  Reg.  1681,  Fo.  82. 


CHAPLIN  OF  ACTON. 


117 


Mill  of  (Kimraitb  (Ehaplin,  1725. 

August  4th  1725.  Edmund  Chaplin  of  Flempton,  co.  Suff.,  Yeoman.  To  Mary  Millington 
my  daughter  £40 ;  to  J udith  Markall  my  daughter  £20 ;  to  Annie  Steel  my  daughter  5s.  To 
all  my  grandchildren,  except  my  grandson  Steel,  £5  apeice,  &  all  the  rest  of  my  personal  estate 
to  William  Chaplin  my  son,  whom  I  appoint  executor.  I  give  all  my  lands  in  Flempton,  Fomham 
St.  Martin,  Tostock,  Lawshall,  &c.,  to  William  Chaplin  my  son,  until  his  son  Edmund  Chaplin  shall 
be  22,  but  £5  per  annum  is  to  be  paid  by  him  to  my  granddaughter  Elizabeth  Millington  &  l8  6d 
per  week  to  Grace  Knock,  my  daughter,  upon  every  Saturday  morning.  Witnesses — John  Lewen, 
Abram  Wetherell,  Jo :  Hayward.  Proved  at  Bury  November  22nd  1727. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Reg.  1727,  fo.  75. 


Mill  of  fEhonuts  Chaplin. 

July  30th  1745.  Thomas  Chaplin,  of  Felsham,  co.  Suffolk,  farmer.  To  Mary  my  wife  £60. 
To  my  son  Thomas  when  of  age  £50.  My  land  at  Hitcham  &  remainder  of  my  personal  estate 
to  my  son  Thomas,  &  if  he  dies  it  shall  be  divided  between  my  son  John,  my  brother  John,  & 
my  sister  Sarah  Head.  Executors — Charles  Turner  &  Thomas  Balls  of  Felsham.  Witnesses — 

Charles  Turner,  Isaac  Christopher,  Elizabeth -  (her  marke).  Proved  at  Bury,  16th  April,  1746. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Reg.  1746,  fo.  356. 


CJjaplin  of  <3rton. 


Clement  Chaplin,  of  Hitcham,  co.  Suff.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  338=j=Joan  Firmen,  at  Long  Melford.  9  Sept.  1571. 
Harrolde,  4  Dec.  1617  ;  proved  11  Feb.  1621-2.  I  Buried  at  Hitcham,  9  April  1614. 


I - 1 - ; - - 

William,  men-  Thomas  Chaplin,  of  Acton,  =f= Mary, 
tioned  in  will  co.  Suff.  Bapt.  there  19 
of  his  uncle,  Jan.  1577-8.  Will,  Arch. 

William  Chap-  Sudb.  175  Ashton,  11  Nov. 
lin,  1575.  1645;  proved  9  May  1649. 


- ! - , - - — - ■ 

Edmund,  Edmund,  bapt.  Hitcham, — Sara, 
bapt.  4  Dec.  1586,  lived  at 

Acton,  Preston,  co.  Suff.  Admon. 

Jan.  Arch.  Sudb.,  25  Nov. 

1580-1.  1646,  to  widow. 


- ( - 

Martha,  wife  of 
Benedict  Posford, 
of  Semer ;  mar. 
13  Aug.  1611. 


Ellen,  wife 
of  Edward 
Eagle. 


1  ! 

Thomas  Chaplin,1 

=Priscilla,  da.  of 

1 

Edmund,  =FMary 

- 1 

William, 

H - 

Martha,  bapt. 

n - 

Mary, 

Grace, 

1 - 

Thamar, 

— i — 

Joan, 

bapt. 

“I 

Sara, 

of  Acton,  ob.  s.p. 
Admon.  Arch. 

Rev.  Edward 

bapt. 

Clarkes, 

bapt. 

Hitcham, 

bapt. 

bapt. 

bapt.  Ac- 

bapt. 

Elliston,  of  Acton. 

Hitcham, 

at  Acton, 

Hitcham, 

1614.  Wife  of 

Hitcham, 

Acton. 

ton, 1621. 

Acton, 

Acton 

Sudb.,  19  Oct. 

Will,  Arch.  Sudb., 

23  March 

1  Nov. 

26  Oct. 

Thomas 

1615. 

Wife  of 

Wife  of 

2  Feb. 

8  Aug 

1688,  to  Edmund 

82  Underwood,  14 

1611. 

1641. 

1617. 

Chinery  of 

Wife  of 

Nicho- 

William 

1623-4. 

1628. 

Chapliu,  nephew 

Nov.  1680 ;  proved 

Acton,  1636. 

John 

las 

Robert- 

and  next  of  kin. 

15  June  1681. 

Bray. 

Halls. 

son. 

Edmund  Chaplin.  Administrator  |  perhaps  the  same  f  Edmund  Chaplin,  of  Flempton,  co.  Suff.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,=p. 
to  his  uncle  Thomas.  (  as  I  75  Clagett,  Pt.  5,  4  Aug.  1725  ;  proved  22  Nov.  1727. 

- - - - - j 


Mary,  wife  of  . 
Millington. 


Judith,  wife  of 
Markall. 


Annie, 

Steel. 


wife  of 


- 1 - 

Grace,  wife  of 
Knock. 


William  Chaplin. 


T 


I - 

Edmund,  under  22  in  1725. 


Chaplin  of 


3Uncolnsf)tre. 


JUmorial  gearings. 

The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  original  grant  made  to  Sir  Francis  Chaplyn  in  1668  : — 

“  A  Grant  of  these  Armes  &  Crest  to  Francis  Chaplyn  of  London  Clotlrworker,  vizt.  Ermine, 
on  a  chief  indented  Vert  three  griffons  heads  erased  Or,  &  for  his  crest  on  a  wreath  of  the  colours 
a  griphons  head  erased  Or,  gorged  with  a  mural  crown  Vert,  mantled  Gules,  doubled  Argent. 
Habend  to  the  said  Francis  Chaplyn  &  his  Posterity  with  their  due  differences  according  to  the 
Law  of  Armes. — Edward  Bysshe,  Clarencieux  King  of  Armes.  “  6  Aug.  20  Car.  II,  1668.” 

Heralds'  College,  Misc.  Grants,  V,  pp.  241,  280. 

After  Sir  Francis’  death  in  1680,  these  arms  were  disallowed  by  an  order  of  the  Earl  Marshal, 
dated  3  Nov.,  1680,  but  on  complaint  being  made  to  the  King  by  John  Chaplain,  his  son,  an  order, 
dated  24  March,  1688,  was  made  confirming  the  patent  of  arms  &  re-registering  the  same  in  the 
College.  Heralds'  College,  Grants,  III,  195. 

A  very  full  pedigree  of  the  descendants  of  Sir  Francis  Chaplin  is  to  be  found  at  the  Heralds’ 
College  (Norfolk,  vol.  14,  135)  with  arms  and  quarterings. 

The  arms  were  granted  to  Sir  Francis  Chaplin  and  his  descendants  only,  but  as  will  be 
seen  from  the  monumental  inscriptions  here  given  they  seem  to  have  been  adopted  indiscriminately 
by  his  collateral  relations,  and  even  by  those  having  no  connection  with  his  family  at  all. 


SHill  of  Robert  (Ehaplin,  1643. 

April  3,  1643.  Robert  Chaplin  of  Bury  St.  Edmunde,  woollendraper.  To  Elizabeth,  my 
wife,  my  house  at  Shelland,  with  all  the  appurtenances,  now  in  the  occupation  of  Edmund  Smyth, 
all  moveable  goods  &c.,  &  the  house  in  Bury  which  I  bought  of  John  Maddy.  My  children  to 
be  brought  up  out  of  the  proceeds,  which  are  to  be  divided  after  her  death  among  my  children 
as  she  shall  see  fit.  Elizabeth,  sole  executor.  Thomas  Chaplin  my  brother  and  Elizabeth  his  wife 
mentioned.  Witnesses — Thomas  Chaplin,  Elizabeth  Chaplin.  Proved  Feb.  16th  1643. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Reg.  1643,  fo.  66. 


CHAPLIN  OF  LINCOLNSHIRE. 


119 


Mill  of  ^iv  Jfrancis  Chaplin,  1678. 

December  19th  1678.  Sir  Francis  Chaplin,  knight,  &  one  of  the  Aldermen  of  the  Citty  of 
London.  My  wife,  Dame  Anne  Chaplin  to  be  executor.  My  body  to  be  buried  in  Creet  Church, 
London,  at  the  expense  of  £200.  To  my  wife  &  uncle  Francis  Asty  &  their  heirs,  my  lands  at 

Bradford,  Wilts,  in  trust  to  sell  the  same  &  employ  the  proceeds  in  purchasing  land  to  the  value 

of  £800  according  to  the  settlement  made  upon  the  marriage  of  my  son  John  Chaplin.  To  my 
wife  my  houses  in  Thames  Street  for  life,  afterwards  to  my  youngest  son  Robert.  To  Anne  my 

daughter  £4,000  at  21  or  marriage.  To  my  second  son  Charles  £2000  at  21  &  lands  in  Jamaica. 

To  Robert  £1,000  at  21.  To  my  sister  Susan  Chaplin  all  my  lands  in  Suffolk  for  life,  afterwards 
to  my  son  Robert.  To  Anne,  Charles,  &  Robert,  half  my  lands  in  Nottinghamshire,  the  remainder 
to  my  son  John.  To  the  poor  of  St.  Buttolph’s,  Billingsgate  £10.  To  my  mother  Hutt  £50  for 
mourning.  To  my  brother  Robert  &  sister  Chaplin  £25  each  for  mourning,  to  my  sister  Susan  Chaplin 
£20  for  the  same  ;  to  my  brother  Hutt  &  his  wife  £20  and  to  my  sister  Hamby  £50  likewise ;  to 
mine  &  her  grandsonne  £100  ;  to  my  unkle  &  Aunt  Asty  £20  for  mourning ;  to  Richard  Beckford, 
Esq.  &  his  lady  £20  ;  to  my  cousin  Robert  Maguyresse  £10  ;  to  my  sister  Adamson’s  two  children 
£10  each  ;  to  Mr.  Nicholas  Martin  &  his  wife  £20  for  mourning.  Witnesses — Nic.  Martin,  Wm  Wainman, 
Anne  Gregory,  Sarai  Charlton.  Codicil  dated  June  4th  1679.  I  give  £200  to  Christ’s  Hospital 
to  put  out  a  clothworkers  sun  to  aperentis  every  yeare.  Proved  July  5th  1680. 

P.C.C.  193,  Bath. 


ffilill  of  giante  Jinn  (Elntplin,  1691. 

May  26th  1691.  Dame  Ann  Chaplin,  widow  &  relict  of  Sir  Francis  Chaplin,  late  Alderman 
of  London.  My  body  to  be  buried  in  St.  Catharine  Cree  Church  at  an  expense  not  exceeding  £100. 
To  my  son  John  Chaplin,  £50  for  mourning  for  himself  &  his  children.  To  my  son  &  daughter 
Shipman  £50  for  the  same.  To  Stamford  Hutt,  £20  to  make  him  apprentice.  To  my  cousin 
Mounser  my  wearing  cloaths.  Remainder  equally  between  my  executors,  my  sons  Robert  &  Charles. 
Witnesses — Ri  :  Pike,  Ann  Mussell,  William  Pargiter.  Memm.  Whereas  since  the  making  of  my 
within  written  will  my  cousin  Mounser  is  married  &  gone  from  me,  I  design  not  that  she  should 
have  my  wearing  cloaths  but  leave  them  to  my  executors  to  be  at  their  disposal,  &  further  for 
the  abundant  care  &  kindness  I  have  received  from  my  Lady  Rouse  since  I  have  been  in  her 
family  my  will  is  that  she  should  have  my  large  diamond  ring  that  hath  five  stones  in  it.  May  1st 
1692.  Wittness — Jane  Hickson.  Proved  May  14th  1692  by  Robert  Chaplin,  power  reserved  to 
Charles  Chaplin.  ‘P.C.C.  82,  Fane. 


120 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Cljapltn  of  Htnrolnsljirr. 


Robert  Chaplin,  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  woollen  draper,  a  Captain  in  the: 
Parliamentary  Army.  Bapt.  Semer,  26  Sept.  1602.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb., 
66  Meadowe,  3  April  1643;  proved  16  Feb.  1643-4. 


:  Elizabeth,  da.  of  Francis  Asty, 
of  Bury,  at  St.  Mary’s  Church, 
Bury,  12  May  1627. 


Sir  Francis  Chaplin,  knight,  citizen1 
and  clothworker  of  London,  Lord 
Mayor,  1668.  Purveyor  to  the  Par¬ 
liamentary  Arm}'.  Died  at  Berey 
Street,  London,  27  June  1680;  bur. 
at  St.  Catherine  Creo  Church.  Will, 
P.C.C.  93  Bath,  19  Dec.  1678  ;  proved 
6  July  1680. 


_  I - 

Elizabeth,  da.  and — John 
heiress  of  Sir  John  Chap- 
Hamby,  of  Tath-  lin,  of 
well,  Lines.,  and  Tath- 
Lamberhurst,  well, 

Kent,  in  1678.  Lines. 
Admon.  P.C.C.  16  Born 
March  1691,  to  1657. 
husband. 


:Anne,  da.  of 
Robert  (or 
Daniel)  Hutt  of 
Essex.  Will 
P.C.C.  82  Fane, 
26  May  1691 ; 
proved  14  May 
1692. 


Robert  Chaplin,  of  St.= 
Swithen’s  Lane,  Lon¬ 
don, merchant  ;  after  of 
Shobdon  Court,  co. 
Hereford.  Will  P.C.C. 
4  Gee,  13  Nov.  1701; 
proved  1705,  by  prin¬ 
cipal  creditors,  exors. 
renouncing.  Ob.  s.p. 


=Anne,  da. of  Sir  Tho¬ 
mas  Tompkins,  knt., 
of  Mornington,  co. 
Hereford,  and  widow 
of  Roger  Yaughan, 
of  Moccas,  co.  Here¬ 
ford.  She  died 
before  1701. 


Susan, 

Ann, 

Elizabeth,  wife 

living 

died 

of  Cmsar  Adam¬ 

1678, 

unmar. 

son,  of  Bury, 

died 

surgeon,  by 

unmar. 

whom  issue. 
She  died  25  Feb. 
1674. 

=Frances,  da.  of  Tlios. 
Archer,  of  Umber- 
slade,  co.  W arwick, 
and  widow  of  Sir 
Francis  Rous,  of 
Rous  Lench.  Mar. 
3  Feb.  1691/2.  Will 
P.C.C.  114  Brown¬ 
ing,  1719. 


- 1 - 

Charles 

Chaplin, 

of 

Jamaica, 


Sir  Robert  Chaplin,  Bart.: 
(created  19  Sept.  1715),  a 
Director  of  the  South  Sea 
Company  ;  M.P.  for  Grims¬ 
by  ;  expelled  the  House  of 
Commons,  28  Jan.  1720. 
Died  1  July  1728.  Admon. 
P.C.C.,  Feb.  1729. 


:.  .  .  da.  of 
.  .  .  Har¬ 
rington,  of 
Louth  ( Le 
NeveJ. 

1 


Isabel,  (or 
Elizabeth), 
died  young 


- 1 

Anne,  the  wife  of 
John  Shipman,  of 
(Nottingham  and) 
London,  mer¬ 
chant. 

Bateman, 


Ann,  the  wife  of  .  . 

2d  son  of  Sir  James  Bateman,  Lord 
Mayor  of  London. 


Ann,  da.  of  . 
Thorold  ( see  P.R.O. 
Chan.  Proc.  1714-58, 
253  Sewell,  Chaplin 
v.  Neate). 


1 - ; - ; - — 

.-pPorter  Chaplin,  of=T=Ann,  2d  wife,  da.  and  heiress 
Tathwell.  Bur.  there  of  Richard  Sherwin,  of  Lon- 
27  July  1719.  Will  don,  merchant.  Bur.  at 
P.C.C.  46  Bucking-  Harmston,  8  Aug.  1728.  Will 
ham,  1721.  P.C.C.  285,  Brooke. 


Fran¬ 

John, 

Thomas  Chaplin,  of 

Anne, 

the  wife 

cis, 

said  to 

Blankney,  Lines.  Died 

of  Thomas  Ar- 

died 

have 

1748.  Will  P.C.C.  7 

cher 

of  Tam- 

1720, 

lived  in 

Strahan.  For  descen¬ 

worth. 

,  co.  War- 

unmar. 

Jamaica. 

dants  see  Burke. 

wick. 

4' 


Sir  John  Chaplin,  Bart.,  sncceeded: 
to  his  uncle’s  baronetcy  by  special 
remainder.  Died  23  May  1730, 
aged  19.  Will  P.C.C.  301  Auber. 


:  [  Anne  ?  ]  da.  of  William 
Morris,  of  Fernham, 
Berks  (mar.  26  March 
1730). 


Frances,  bapt.  at  Al¬ 
ford,  4  Oct.  1712. 
Wife  of  Charles  Fitz- 
william,  of  Caister. 


- r — - 

Anne,  wife 
of  William 
Yavasor,  of 
York. 


Elizabeth,  bur.=l,  Edward  Avscough, 
at  Welton,  1750.  of  Louth,  and  2,  in 
Admon.  P.C.C.  1740,  Rev.  John  Sid- 
March  1751.  well,  Rector  of  Welton. 


Anne,  da.  and  sole  heiress,  born  4  Jan.  1731/2,  wife  of 
Arthur  Gregory,  of  Styvechale,  co.  Warwick. 


'• 


> 


• 

* 


